Parametric influence of process conditions on thermochemical techniques for biochar production: A state-of-the-art review Biochar refers to the carbonaceous black solid residue product obtained from the thermochemical decomposition of waste biomass typically under oxygen-limited environment. There are many thermochemical methods for biochar production from solid waste streams, prominent are pyrolysis, torrefaction, and hydrothermal carbonization. However, the yield and properties of biochar depend mainly on the production methods and the process parameters, such as temperature, residence time, heating rate, gas environment, feedstock types, among others. This review provides the current state-of-art in biochar production by assessing the parametric influence of process conditions on the yields, properties, and compositions of biochar across pyrolysis, torrefaction, and hydrothermal carbonization and their process variants. Furthermore, the review compares and contrasts the different techniques with respect to the mass and energy yield of the biochar product at similar process conditions. It was found that irrespective of the production techniques, the operating temperature, typically, 150–300 °C for hydrothermal, 200–300 °C for torrefaction, and 300–600 °C for pyrolysis, remain the most influential parameter on biochar yield and compositions. While the char product yields are comparable across the various thermochemical conversion techniques, they had strong effect on the char properties. Woody biomass and crop residues are the most dominant feedstocks studied for biochar production due to their attractive bioenergy properties (volatile matter >80% and ash content <15%). Lastly, slow pyrolysis is the most optimized technique for biochar production with a typical yield of 25–50 wt%, carbon content of 30–70 wt% and calorific value of 10–30 MJ/kg at 450 °C from lignocellulosic biomass. Other critical findings have been summarised, and perspectives for future research were provided. Overall, the assessment can serve as a directive tool in selecting an ideal thermochemical conversion technology for high quality biochar production.