Design, simulation and investigation of the tri-generation process of fresh water, power and biogas using solar thermal energy and sewage sludge To address the high demand for energy and fresh water, the effect of global warming and pollution generated by fossil fuels consumption needs to be minimized and replaced with alternative renewable energy. Hybrid renewable energy systems using solar energy and biomass will become more crucial. In this study a new design for continuous production process of power, biogas and fresh water is proposed. The challenge of the present research is to use different sources for energy production from renewable resources simultaneously including solar and biomass to produce power, fuel and fresh water, using 4-stage Multi Effect Distillation (MED) for desalination of seawater. To cope with constant and stable energy production required for renewable solar power plants at night, due to lack of sunlight, co-consumption of hybrid solar and biomass feedstocks is considered in this paper. The associated challenge is discussed by the assessments of Solar Heat transfer fluid (SHTF), Sewage sludge flowrates, biogas production, output waste stream of gasification reactor, power and fresh water production using ASPEN Plus software. The sensitivity analysis was performed to demonstrate the viability of the designed process and the resulting products. The gasification process produced 76.8586 ton h syngas (CO and H2). Also, 34.547 MW of power with about 783 m 3 h of fresh water were produced with the overall exergy efficiency of 35.51 %, 52.260 MW exergy destruction and desalination efficiency of 52 %. Only 25 MW of solar power were necessary due to proper energy recovery throughout the entire process. The productivity of fresh water production was 50 %. 38908 m2 of Parabolic trough collector (PTC) was needed to supply required solar energy during day light hours. It was revealed that the hybridization of solar & biomass energy resources for producing power, fresh water, and biogas could be a sustainable approach to cope with the increasing demand for fresh water, electricity, and fuel.