Critical review of the green comprehensive utilization of NMFs-WPCBs: Efficient separation and clean recovery of bromine resources Waste printed circuit boards (WPCBs), rich in toxic organic halides and high-value metals, are critical electronic waste (e-waste) components. However, the comprehensive utilization of WPCBs has become challenging due to the complex composition, low value and secondary pollution of its non-metallic fractions (NMFs). Therefore, achieving the harmless treatment of NMFs-WPCBs and the upgraded reuse of bromine resources not only reduces the consumption of natural resources and environment pollution but also facilitates the high-value recovery of non-metallic resources, thereby providing new opportunities for sustainable development. This review systematically analyzes the latest research advancements concerning debromination processes for NMFs-WPCBs. Firstly, the composition and associated hazards of NMFs-WPCBs are briefly discussed. Secondly, the highly promising debromination processes developed in recent years for NMFs-WPCBs are evaluated. The debromination methods for NMFs, including mechanochemical technology, supercritical fluid technology, and pyrolysis technology, are summarized in detail. The mechanism of ball milling debromination and the decomposition and transformation of organic bromides in supercritical technology are summarized and analyzed. Furthermore, the debromination effects and catalytic mechanisms of additives in the pyrolysis process are analyzed and compared. Eventually, based on the advantages of the above debromination processes and the migration and solidification mechanism of bromine elements in the pyrolysis process of organic bromides, an integrated and efficient debromination process for the diversified recovery of NMFs-WPCBs was proposed to selectively obtain high-value target products and achieve directional control of bromine, which provides a sustainable pathway for the harmless treatment of NMFs-WPCBs and upgrading and reutilizing of bromine elements. This review is intended to provide a reference for achieving ecologically sustainable development and promoting the high-value utilization of non-metallic resources in WPCBs.