Pyrolysis reaction mechanisms and chlorine migration of tetrachlorobiphenyl a through the integration of ReaxFF-MD and DFT Flame retardants, especially Tetrachlorobisphenol A (TCBPA), one of the waste materials from renewable energy devices, are becoming a significant environmental concern. While pyrolysis has emerged as a promising method for the disposal of TCBPA-containing waste, the complex molecular mechanisms and reaction pathways involved in TCBPA pyrolysis remain largely unknown. In this work, an integrated approach combining Reactive force field molecular dynamics (ReaxFF-MD), Density Functional Theory (DFT), and thermogravimetric-Mass Spectroscopy (TG-MS) techniques was employed to scrutinize TCBPA pyrolysis at the microscopic level. ReaxFF-MD simulations were performed to investigate the pyrolysis process over a wide temperature range (2200–3200 K), revealing complex pyrolysis mechanisms with multiple reaction pathways, including β-scission, dechlorination, dehydrogenation, dehydroxylation, and the formation of chlorinated products, such as HCl, C2HCl, and CH3Cl. The primary gaseous by-products detected in the TCBPA pyrolysis align with the results from ReaxFF simulations. The computational outcomes reveal that the primary reaction sites in TCBPA pyrolysis are B1 (bridgehead carbon) and B2 (chloro-substituted carbon), collectively representing roughly 80 % of total reactions. The DFT results show that hydrogen and chlorine detachments from various functional groups have distinct energy requirements, contingent upon specific energy barriers. Additionally, minor coking events occur during pyrolysis, leading to marginal tar and char production, which is temperature dependent. The pyrolysis pathways of TCBPA were unraveled and the potential environmental hazards associated with chlorinated organic pollutant byproducts, such as HCl, were highlighted. The fundamental knowledge obtained from this study provides insights and guidance for the disposal of TCBPA-containing waste in an environmentally friendly manner.