Title: Sustainable synthesis of multi-walled carbon nanotubes from waste polystyrene using alumina-supported single and bimetallic catalyst
Abstract: In this work, multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) are synthesised from waste polymer (polystyrene) using alumina-supported single and bimetallic catalysts in a two-stage reactor. Waste polystyrene was efficiently converted into carbon nanotubes (CNTs) using a two-step pyrolysis-decomposition method. The sol-gel method was used to synthesize a series of single metallic (Ni, Fe, and Co) and bimetallic catalysts, Fe:Ni, Co:Ni, and Fe:Co, with active metals in the ratios 1:3, 3:1, and 1:1. Mo served as the promoter, and Al2O3 as the catalyst support. Catalyst characterization techniques such as BET analysis, X-ray diffraction (XRD), SEM and thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) were employed. The catalytic activity of each synthesised catalyst was evaluated based on the yield and quality of the resulting MWCNTs. With better graphitization and fewer structural flaws, Ni/Mo/Al₂O₃ showed the highest quality of MWCNTs produced among all catalysts. Due to its high surface area, mesoporosity, and efficient metal dispersion, the Ni/Mo/Al₂O₃ catalyst demonstrated the highest performance, generating uniform, fine-diameter MWCNTs (20–40 nm) with high yield (65 %), outstanding graphitization (lowest ID/IG ratio of 0.55), and superior crystallinity. The crystalline nature of the CNTs was validated by structural investigation using XRD, with diffraction peaks corresponding to graphite (002) and (100) reflections. Lower ID/IG ratios in MWCNTs using single-metal catalysts, Ni and Fe based catalysts, suggested greater graphitization and fewer defects, but bimetallic catalysts showed larger defect density, according to Raman spectroscopy, which shed light on structural quality. Polycrystalline structures with well-ordered graphene layers were revealed by Selected Area Electron Diffraction (SAED) patterns, confirming the synthesised CNTs' are graphitic origin. Because of the synergistic effect of Ni's strong graphitization ability and Fe's high carbon solubility, Fe:Ni (1:3)/Mo/Al₂O₃ produced the highest CNT yield, with a maximum MWCNT yield of 69 %.