Pyrolysis behavior of densified refuse-derived fuels (d-RDFs) via TGA: Investigating the impact of densification degree on thermal kinetics and thermodynamics The conversion of municipal solid waste (MSW) into its energy-rich fraction, known as refuse derived fuel (RDF), addresses both MSW management and energy demand. RDF comprises a diverse blend of various non-hazardous waste streams, making it challenging to predict physical properties and chemical compositions. However, densification can help overcome these challenges. This work aims to explore the effect of densification degree on kinetic and thermodynamic parameters during the degradation of densified refuse-derived fuels (d-RDFs) in inert atmosphere. Herein, three d-RDFs samples obtained with varying degree of densification and die temperatures ranging from 55 °C to 118 °C, as well as a mixed fines (MF) sample produced during the pelletization process, were analyzed. Pyrolysis potential of d-RDFs and MF were determined using thermogravimetric analysis in the temperature range from 30 to 800 °C, at multiple heating rates of 5, 10, and 20 K min−1. The effect of the degree of densification on physical characteristics, and kinetic and thermodynamic parameters of d-RDF was investigated. Apparent activation energy (Eα) was estimated employing Friedman (FR), Kissinger-Akahera-Sunnose (KAS), and Flynn-Wall-Ozawa (FWO) methods. Derived Eα values were used to determine the pre-exponential factor (Aα) using the Kissinger method. Experimental results revealed that the durability of d-RDFs increased from 79.26 % to 98.73 % as the densification degree increased from II to IX. Furthermore, the Eα values exhibited a decreasing trend in the first peaks of the DTG profiles, while an opposite trend was observed in the second peaks of DTG curves. However, with an increase in the degree of densification, the mean values of Eα decreased by 5–10 % for all methods. The Aα values, assessed using the FR method, surpassed the critical value of (109 s−1) for all samples. However, with the KAS and FWO methods, these values fell below (109 s−1) within the conversion range of 0.05–0.25. Thermodynamic parameters confirmed the endothermicity of the thermal degradation process.