High quality terephthalic acid produced via a single step depolymerization-purification process of postconsumer polyethylene terephthalate for co-crystallization applications Efficient and simple steps chemical recycling technologies are surfacing as promising and sustainable pathways toward realizing circular economies for postconsumer plastic waste. Herein, a single step alkaline hydrolytic depolymerization and product purification of postconsumer polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastics was performed under conventional heating. Activated carbon (AC) was incorporated during the reaction itself to produce a high-quality monomer with significantly reduced number of purification steps. Within 40 min, the proposed one step depolymerization-purification technology was able to facilitate ≈99 % conversion of PET to TPA monomer with improved yield (reaching 93 %), colour properties (92 % optical transmittance) and acid value (670–672 mgKOH/gTPA). Activated carbon played a crucial role in maintaining the quality of the produced TPA during the course of the reaction while the reaction time and volume of EG had the upper hand in determining the percentage of PET conversion and yield of TPA. First order reaction kinetics were able to describe the proposed PET depolymerization process with average activation energy of 28.5 kJ/mol. The reagents utilized in the depolymerization and purification purposes were also regenerated and their performance in another cycle of depolymerization indicated acceptable results with respect to PET conversion (92–98 %) and TPA yield (89–90 %). Furthermore, the obtained high-quality TPA was utilized in the co-crystallization of the anti-tuberculosis drug; Isoniazid (IZA). The different characterization techniques indicated the successful fabrication of IZA-TPA co-crystals. Thus, proving that the proposed single step depolymerization-purification route can offer an appealing economic and ecologically sustainable solution for postconsumer PET recycling and upcycling.