Optimization and design of solar-thermal turquoise hydrogen production integrating solar dish-CH4 pyrolysis reactor: GA-CFD approach An innovative solution for clean H2 production is essential to meet the demand for transitioning to sustainable energy systems. Solar-assisted hydrogen production not only offers a reliable path to reducing H2 production costs but also enables a carbon–neutral for turquoise hydrogen production process. In this research, a novel hybrid solar-dish-assisted hydrogen production reactor system, including methane pyrolysis reactions, was designed for the first time using an integrated computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and genetic algorithm (GA) approach (GA-CFD). Governing equations, such as ray-tracing optics with specular reflection and solar flux concentration, alongside the reactive-convective-diffusive equations (momentum, heat, and mass transfer in porous media), were solved to model the solar dish and H2 production reactor, respectively. The design process integrates GA-CFD modeling of the solar dish and reactor, estimating both the hydrogen production rate and instrumental cost as functions of key parameters: focal length (m) and incident angle (°) for the solar dish, and catalyst porosity and loading (g/m3) for the reactor. CFD analysis of the solar dish reveals that, within the studied range of focal lengths (2–4 m), an intermediate focal length (3 m) offers an optimal balance between optical efficiency and thermal manageability for practical solar concentrator systems. Additionally, variations in the catalyst bed porosity from 0.2 to 0.6 result in a 100 % increase in H2 concentration at the reactor outlet. However, due to greater pyrolysis reaction progression at higher porosities, methane concentration decreases by 9.09 %. Furthermore, CFD results of the H2 production reactor show that wall temperature variations from 780 K to 850 K lead to an 8 % increase in methane conversion, a 629 % increase in hydrogen production rate, and a 9.5 % reduction in bed porosity due to accelerated reaction kinetics and improved heat transfer. Finally, the optimum design conditions for the hybrid solar-dish-assisted H2 production reactor, calculated using the multi-objective optimization algorithm of GA-CFD, are as follows: focal length = 2.63 m, incident angle = 50°, catalyst porosity = 0.5, and catalyst loading = 324.99 g/m3. The analysis reveals a clear trade-off, where a high H2 production rate is achieved at the expense of a low economic cost, and a confirmation test revealed that the optimum design could be reconstructed using GA-CFD with relative errors of 4.89 % and 3.92 % for the H2 production rate and cost targets, respectively.