Advancing infrastructure resilience: A polymeric composite reinforcement grid with self-sensing and self-heating capabilities In this study, a novel multifunctional grid-shaped polymeric composite (MGPC) with reinforcing, autonomous strain, stress, and damage sensing and localizing in addition to targeted heating capabilities, has been developed. Distinct from preceding composites, this grid synthesizes these features collectively for the first time and concurrently addresses current challenges in multifunctional composites, such as environmental impact, data reliability, complexity, and production costs. The fabrication process entails 3D printing an electrical circuit with conductive filaments within a polylactic acid (PLA) host polymer. The conductive filament was composed of a thermoplastic polymer (TPU) infused with carbon nanotubes (CNT)-grafted carbon fibres (CFs) produced via chemical vapour deposition. The mechanical, microstructural, and electrical properties of the grid elements and cementitious slabs reinforced with MGPC were comprehensively examined. The MGPC's performance in traffic flow monitoring, mechanical behaviour prediction, and damage localization was assessed through wheel tracking, asymmetric punch tests, piezoresistivity response evaluation, and digital image correlation techniques. Furthermore, the self-warming ability of the MGPC in cementitious composites was investigated using different voltages. The extruded TPU containing CNT-grafted CFs exhibited an electrical percolation threshold of approximately 5.0 wt%, resulting in a conductivity of around 70 S/m for the filaments. Incorporating MGPC as reinforcement within cementitious composite slabs led to notable enhancements, with flexural strength increasing by approximately 15 % and failure strain by up to 350 %. Wheel tracking tests revealed changes in the electrical: 5.8 % for 520 N and 7.8 % for 700 N wheel loads, with roughly 5.0 % average error in velocity detection. Transverse elements precisely detected wheel locations demonstrating the MGPC capabilities in accurately detecting wheel speed weight, and location. The study established strong correlations between electrical resistance changes, mechanical behaviour, and damage detection, affirming the MGPC's reliability and efficacy for damage monitoring and localization. The cementitious slab reinforced with MGPC reached around 52°C through a 20 V direct current, with a heating rate of 0.25°C/s and a power density of 142 W/m², showing its potential for practical applications such as self-healing and de-icing. However, design parameters such as mesh and conductive circuit configuration, long-term performance, as well as Life Cycle Assessment need further investigation.