Performance of red mud oxygen carriers in chemical-looping hydrogen production using different components of plastic waste pyrolytic gas This study proposed plastic waste-fueled Chemical-looping Hydrogen Production (CLHP) based on the concept of three-reactor chemical-looping process for the purposes of sustainable treatment of plastic wastes while producing high purity H2 and separating CO2. Oxygen carrier prepared from red mud wastes (Bauxite residues) was suggested to be circulating materials to improve combustion efficiency and H2 yield. The feasibility of using pelletized oxygen carrier prepared from red mud wastes was experimentally investigated with major components (H2, CH4 and C2H4) of plastics pyrolysis gases as fuels. The red mud oxygen carrier composed of around 38 wt% Fe2O3 and 50 wt% inert materials, and CuO-promoted oxygen carriers composed of 8.0 wt% CuO and 92 wt% red mud wastes were used. The two oxygen carriers were examined by parallel experiments, focusing on the aspects of oxygen transport, stability, hydrogen productivity and carbon deposition. Temperature and different components of plastic pyrolysis gases had significant impacts on oxygen transport behaviors; reduction tests using CH4 or C2H4 fuels suggested that the operation temperature of Fuel Reactor should be higher than 800 °C for deep reduction and high H2 productivity. CuO addition significantly promoted oxygen carrier's reactivity and oxygen transport capacity with various fuel components. The cyclic CLHP experiments, performed over 10 redox cycles with C2H4 as fuels, showed that there was only a limited degradation in oxygen carriers caused by carbon deposition and element migration. The developed oxygen carriers can meet the requirements of long-term operation for CLHP process. Carbon deposition on the oxygen carriers derived from hydrocarbon fuel cracking seemed to be inevitable, which experimentally determined in the range of 0.01–0.043 g g−1 oxygen carriers as C2H4 was used as fuels. However, the reactivity of these carbon deposits was extremely low; their initial steam-gasification temperatures were around 750 °C, much higher than the temperature used for water splitting reaction. This provides the potential opportunities for an industrial CLHP process to produce high purity H2 (>97%) despite of carbon deposits presents in Fuel Reactor.