Revitalizing the circular economy: An exploration of e-waste recycling approaches in a technological epoch In today's world, the proliferation of electronic devices has led to a significant increase in electronic waste (e-waste) generation, necessitating the development of innovative approaches for sustainable management. E-waste recycling, which involves the recovery of valuable materials from discarded electronic devices, has emerged as a promising solution to the growing e-waste problem. This article presents an analysis of the current state of research on e-waste management, encompassing various recycling approaches, including mechanical, chemical, and biological methods. The analysis revealed that most of the research on e-waste management has focused on the development of recycling technologies, with a significant emphasis on the use of chemical methods. However, there is a growing interest in the use of biological methods, such as bioreactors and microbial technologies, for e-waste management. Many challenges including lack of uniform regulations, inadequate infrastructure, and high cost of recycling technologies were initiated. The formation of product reuse through remanufacturing, and the deployment of effective recycling facilities are necessary for the management of e-waste. The challenge is to develop innovative and cost-effective solutions to e-waste management (plastic-based e-waste and metals-based e-waste). Several technologies are currently applied to plastic-based e-waste and metals-based e-waste management. primary, secondary, and tertiary recycling of plastic-based e-waste and metallurgical approaches for metals-based e-waste are ideal methods for e-waste management. Furthermore, the techno-economic feasibility of different e-waste recycling approaches was estimated. The analysis suggests that while some recycling approaches are economically viable, there is a need for more research to optimize the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of these methods.