Investigations of superparamagnetism in magnesium ferrite nano-sphere synthesized by ultrasonic spray pyrolysis technique for hyperthermia application In this paper, we present the synthesized of magnesium ferrite (MgFe2O4) nano-spheres by a single-step ultrasonic spray pyrolysis (USP) technique from the aqueous metal nitrate precursor solution without any organic additives or post-annealing processes. The effects of different pyrolysis temperatures on the particles size, morphology and their superparamagnetic behavior have been investigated to evaluate the heat generation efficiency in an AC magnetic field. The X-ray powder diffraction spectra of MgFe2O4 nano-spheres synthesized at the pyrolysis temperatures of 600, 700, 800 and 900°C exhibited single phase cubic structure and obtained mean crystallite size (primary particles) of 4.05, 9.6, 15.97 and 31.48nm, respectively. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) confirms that the particles consisted of aggregates of the primary crystallite had densely congested spherical morphology with extremely smooth surface appearance. Field emission electron microscopy (FESEM) reveals that the shape and size of the nano-spheres (secondary particles) does not change significantly but the degree of agglomeration between the secondary particles was reduced with increasing the pyrolysis temperature. The average size and size distribution of nano-spheres measured using electrophoretic scattering photometer have found very low polydispersity index (PDI) for all samples. The field dependent magnetization studies indicated superparamagnetic nature for the particles having crystallite size i.e. 4.05 and 9.6nm and exhibited ferromagnetic nature for 15.97 and 31.48nm. It is also demonstrated that, as the pyrolysis temperature increases, the saturation magnetization of the MgFe2O4 nanopowders increases due to enhancement of crystallites. The shift in Curie temperature is well described by the finite-size scaling formula. The magnetically loss heating values of selected samples in crystallite size of 9.6 and 15.97nm were investigated by measuring the time dependent temperature curves in an external alternating magnetic field (370kHz, 1.77kA/m). The more heat generation ability was obtained for 9.6nm in crystal size because of minimum squareness ratio with coercivity in superparamagnetic range. The results reported in this study are useful to find out of superparamagnetic limit for the preparation of MgFe2O4 nanopowders.