Tin-based alloys for advanced lithium/sodium storage: Fabrication designs, optimization strategies and fundamental mechanisms Tin (Sn) is considered as a promising anode material for lithium-ion and sodium-ion batteries (LIBs and SIBs) due to its high theoretical capacity (994 and 847 mAh g−1 for LIBs and SIBs, respectively), moderate working potential (0.3–0.6 V), superior conductivity, and abundant resources. However, the significant volume expansion (∼260% and 420% for LIBs and SIBs, respectively) and the coarsening issues of Sn result in poor cyclic stability, which severely restricts the application. Alloying Sn with various metals to construct Sn-based alloys (MSn x , M = Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Sb, etc.) is a widely used method to buffer volume expansion and inhibit Sn coarsening in order to improve cycling performance. In this review, we systematically summarize the recent advances in the research into MSn x alloys for advanced lithium/sodium storage, including fabrication, optimization and mechanisms. Four viable synthesis approaches of MSn x from M and Sn ions or metal particles are presented, i.e., chemical reduction, ball milling, electrochemical deposition, and calcination. Four efficient enhancement strategies and their fundamental mechanisms are proposed, i.e., nano size control, designing porous/hollow structures, compositing with carbon, and constructing array architectures. Nanostructured MSn x can reduce the volume expansion and shorten the ion transport distance. Compositing MSn x with carbon can buffer the volume stress and improve the conductivity. Constructing porous and hollow structured MSn x can strengthen the structural robustness and promote electrolyte infiltration. Establishing array architectured MSn x can accommodate the volume changes and maintain electrode structural integrity. Finally, the future prospects and challenges of MSn x anodes are highlighted which will provide valuable insights for the rational design of next-generation LIBs/SIBs and facilitate their practical application development.