Recent advances in the use of graphitic carbon nitride-based composites for the electrochemical detection of hazardous contaminants Graphitic carbon nitride (g-C3N4 or GCN) based nanostructures have emerged as the most well-known and widely used nanomaterials and they attracted global interest due to their chemical stability, abundance, scalable synthesis, cost-effectiveness, and biocompatibility. The tailorable properties of GCN largely depend on the various surface morphologies of nanostructured GCN, which are further dependent upon the type of utilized synthesis approach. The abundance of functional amine groups, surface area, flexibility in designing various nanostructures, active sites, and exceptional properties have inspired the use of GCN nanostructures as emerging sensing platforms for the electrochemical detection of hazardous contaminants. Although many review articles have been reported on the synthesis and applications of GCN-based materials, the comprehensive study of recent research developments and significant analysis of GCN-based sensing materials for the detection of hazardous contaminants using electrochemical devices have not been fully explored. Hence, in this review, we systematically analyzed and comprehensively reviewed the recent research developments of GCN-based composites for the electrochemical detection of hazardous contaminants such as drugs, phenolic compounds, heavy metal ions, nitrites, and pesticides. Immobilization methods, modification strategies, advantages and disadvantages of GCN composites for the electrochemical detection of hazardous contaminants were explicitly elucidated. Significantly, this review emphasizes the potential of GCN-based sensing materials for the on-site electrochemical detection of hazardous contaminants. Furthermore, advantages of the on-site electrochemical sensing strategies and portable devices were provided. Viewpoints on the critical challenges and future perspectives were provided for the GCN in electrochemical sensing strategies based on recent research developments and our experimental expertise. It is anticipated that the current work will pave the way for providing fruitful future insights for the researchers working on the design and development of various electrochemical sensors and promote their growth in various fields of science and technology.