Shear wave reflectivity, anisotropies, Poisson's ratios, and densities of a southern Appalachian Paleozoic sedimentary sequence The physical properties of a sequence of Paleozoic sedimentary rocks have been examined in detail, with an emphasis on laboratory measurements of density, shear wave velocity, shear wave splitting, and V p /V s ratios. Seismic properties of 147 cores from 49 rock samples collected from the Thorn Hill sedimentary sequence of eastern Tennessee are examined in terms of implications for future seismic studies in the southern Appalachians. The shear wave velocities of these rocks are strongly influenced by the relatively high shear wave velocity of quartz. Shear wave velocity anisotropy is present in most of the lithologic groups; it is highest in the shales while being almost insignificant in the dolostones. The related phenomenon of shear wave splitting occurs to some degree in all of the lithologies studied and at high pressures originates from mineral orientation. Splitting, due to preferred mineral orientation, is most prominent in the shales, but also is significant in some of the carbonates. Compressional to shear velocity (V p /V s ) ratios of approximately 1.82 (dolostones) and 1.95 (limestones) effectively characterize the carbonates while other lithologies display wider ranges of V p /V s , primarily due to the influence of accessory minerals such as quartz. Densities of the sample suite range from 2.34 g/cm3 (shale) to 2.86 g/cm3 (dolostone). Using average data for each lithologic group to calculate normal-incidence reflection coefficients, significant differences in the shear and compressional reflectivity of hypothetical interfaces are found. Normal-incidence shear and compressional wave synthetic seismograms approximating the subsurface reflectivity of the entire Thorn Hill section indicate that three zones of high amplitude reflections would be seen on reflection records obtained over this 3327-m-thick sequence. Overall, the shear and compressional synthetics are similar in appearance. Differences are seen at some interfaces in the Mississippian-Devonian interval, which are more reflective to shear waves, and in the Ordovician Martinsburg Formation, which appears more reflective to compressional waves.