Facile preparation of N/P co-doped mesoporous biochar for efficient removal of methylene blue from aqueous solutions: A 2D-FTIR-COS, adsorption mechanism analysis, and fixed-bed column study Modification is a common strategy to optimize the physicochemical properties of biochar to reinforce its adsorption efficiency, especially a method that can achieve multiple modification purposes. In this study, rice straw was used as feedstock and ammonium phosphate [(NH4)3PO4] was used as N and P co-modifiers to synthesize modified biochars at various pyrolysis temperatures, and their adsorption properties and mechanisms toward methylene blue (MB) were investigated systematically. The results showed that the specific surface area and aromaticity of biochars increased with the increase in pyrolysis temperature. The (NH4)3PO4 modification endowed modified biochars with developed mesoporous structure, abundant nitrogen and phosphorus functional groups, more graphitic structure, and high ash content. The (NH4)3PO4 modification enhanced the adsorption efficiency of the biochars for MB. Batch adsorption and dynamic fixed-bed experiments showed that NPBC900 ((NH4)3PO4 modified biochar prepared at 900 °C) presented a good adsorption performance for MB, among which Langmuir and pseudo-second-order kinetic models better described the batch adsorption process of NPBC900 for MB, whereas the Thomas, Clark, and Adams-Bohart models better fitted the dynamic adsorption process of NPBC900 for MB. The maximum adsorption capacity of NPBC900 for MB reached 156.36 mg/g. In addition, adsorption of MB on NPBC900 was a spontaneous, endothermic, randomness-enhancing process, and occurred in a wide pH range (3.0–9.0) and in the presence of coexisting ions. The main adsorption mechanisms of NPBC900 for MB removal were pore filling, π–π interaction, hydrogen bonding, complexation, and electrostatic effect. The 2D-FTIR-COS analysis showed that the adsorption mechanisms between MB and NPBC900 followed the order π–π interaction > hydrogen bonding > electrostatic interaction. This research provided new insights into the adsorption mechanisms and practical application of modified biochar for pollutant removal.