Comparative investigation of structural properties and biological applications of chemical and biogenic synthesis of zirconium dioxide (ZrO2) nanoparticles using Passiflora edulis Over the last decade, the environmental and wellness cost of antibiotic drug resistance to the societies have been astounding and require urgent attention Metal oxide nanomaterials have been achieved a pull-on deal with its entire applications in biological and photocatalytic applications. The present study conducts a comparative investigation on chemical and biogenic synthesis of zirconium dioxide (ZrO2) nanoparticles aimed at enhancing their efficacy in their applications. The plant extract of Passiflora edulis act as a reducing and capping properties offering a sustainable and eco-friendly alternative. ZrO2 nanoparticles have drawn a lot of scrutiny owing to their potential uses in numerous fields, including medicine and environmental remediation. Thereby produced ZrO2 nanoparticles were synthesized by employing sustainable techniques, and their successful production and their uses were confirmed by characterization by XRD, FTIR, UV–visible spectroscopy, SEM, EDAX, PL, TEM, XPS, TGA and Raman spectroscopy. The zirconia nanoparticles synthesized using chemical and green methods exhibited ultraviolet-visible (UV–Vis) absorption maxima at 221 and 224 nm, respectively, demonstrating their synthesis. X-ray diffraction research revealed that the nanoparticles possess a tetragonal shape, with mean particle sizes of 11 nm and 7 nm, respectively. The synthesized ZrO2 nanoparticles (ZrO2 and Ext-ZrO2) exhibited inhibitory effects against Gram-positive strains (Bacillus subtilis and Staphylococcus aureus) and Gram-negative germs (Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas aureus), with zones of inhibition measuring (12, 8 mm), (8, 11 mm), (12, 15 mm), and (7, 12 mm) correspondingly. The antitumor activity of ZrO2 and Ext-ZrO2 was assessed using human colon cancer cells (HT29). The MTT assay was employed to assess the cytotoxicity of ZrO2 nanospheres on the HT-29 cell line at various concentrations (7.5, 15.6, 31.2, 62.5, 125, 250, and 500 μg/ml). The HT29 cell line exhibits a reduction in cell viability from 96 % to 34 % when the concentration of ZrO2 nanoparticles escalates. The photocatalytic activity of ZrO2 and Ext-ZrO2 exhibited absorbance deterioration at around 445 nm, resulting in the discoloration of Rh B dye under UV light irradiation after 100 min, achieving maximal degradation rates of 96 % and 99 %, respectively. Consequently, the synthesized ZrO2 and Ext-ZrO2 may be utilized in antibiotic formulation, pharmaceutical sectors, and photocatalysts.