CoSe2/MoSe2 heterojunction as an efficient electrocatalyst for energy-saving hydrogen production and electro-treatment of organic molecules In this work, CoSe2/MoSe2 bifunctional electrocatalyst with p-p heterojunction and hollow structure was prepared by precipitation-hydrothermal method. In the standard three-electrode system, when the current density reaches 50 mA cm−2, the reaction potentials of oxygen evolution reaction (OER), urea oxidation reaction (UOR) and lactic acid oxidation reaction (LOR) are 1.58, 1.45 and 1.44 V versus reversible hydrogen electrode (vs. RHE), respectively. In the test of hydrogen evolution reaction (HER), when the current density is 50 mA cm−2, the overpotential of hydrogen evolution reaction in 1 M KOH is 197 mV. After adding 0.5 M urea or 0.125 M lactic acid to 1 M KOH, the overpotentials of HER are 175 mV and 165 mV, respectively. The two-electrode overall water splitting shows that it takes 1.72 V, 1.68 V and 1.67 V to drive 50 mA cm−2 in three electrolytes respectively. It is particularly noteworthy that when polylactic acid (PLA) pipette is used as the lactic acid source, the system can still maintain a low operating voltage of 1.69 V, meanwhile shows excellent stability in 100 h of continuous testing, highlighting a certain industrialization potential. Density functional theory (DFT) and experimental data well reveal the mechanism of the enhanced electrocatalytic performance for CoSe2/MoSe2 heterojunction due to its strong chemical interactions between CoSe2 and MoSe2. The charge rearrangement at this heterojunction between CoSe2 and MoSe2 forms a local electric field, which significantly improves the charge transfer efficiency and accelerates the reaction rate. In this study, the resource utilization of waste biomass (PLA) and nitrogen-containing wastewater (Urea) is organically combined with the hydrogen production process of electrolytic water, which provides a new idea for simultaneous pollutant degradation and green hydrogen production in energy conversion field.