Additive manufacturing of fiber-reinforced silicon carbide ceramic matrix composites: process optimization and performance control Silicon carbide (SiC) ceramic materials are widely used in fields such as aerospace due to their low density, high strength, and excellent chemical stability. However, their high hardness and brittleness make them difficult to form and machine. 3D printing technology provides a new approach for the forming and manufacturing of complex-shaped SiC ceramic components. Nevertheless, 3D-printed ceramic components suffer from issues like high porosity and low mechanical strength. Fiber reinforcement is considered one of the most promising methods to enhance their mechanical properties. This paper reviews the latest research progress at home and abroad on 3D-printed fiber-reinforced SiC ceramic matrix composites (SiC-CMC). It details the types and pre-treatment methods of fibers suitable for SiC 3D printing, the 3D printing processes for discrete fiber-reinforced and continuous fiber-reinforced SiC-CMC, their application fields, and compares the mechanical properties of SiC-CMC prepared by different 3D printing technologies. The results show that for short-cut fiber-reinforced SiC-CMC prepared via 3D printing, reaction melt infiltration (RMI) is mostly adopted as a post-densification treatment method, which significantly improves the bending strength. However, different 3D printing processes have their own advantages and disadvantages and are suitable for different fields. Continuous fiber-reinforced SiC-CMC exhibits significantly higher fracture toughness compared to short-cut fiber-reinforced SiC-CMC. Moreover, the fibers in continuous fiber-reinforced SiC-CMC show a clear directional arrangement, which can increase the energy consumed during crack propagation and improve fracture toughness. The purpose of this paper is to comprehensively elaborate on the research status of 3D-printed fiber-reinforced SiC ceramic matrix composites and provide a reference for future research and applications in this field.