Progress in catalytic pyrolysis of municipal solid waste Municipal solid wastes occupy lands and create environmental issues, which has stimulated interest from governments to research community for converting them into useful products such as fuels, chemicals and electricity through the thermochemical methods including pyrolysis, gasification, etc. Pyrolysis converts municipal solid wastes into fuels in gaseous, liquid and solid form. Owing to the unsatisfactory quality of fuels from non-catalytic pyrolysis, catalytic pyrolysis was proposed to improve especially the properties of liquid fuel in the presence of catalyst. Catalyst is thus an essential parameter in catalytic pyrolysis, as the specifications of catalysts could show profound influence on composition of the liquid fuel. Specifically, the formulation of catalyst, the exposed surface species, the acidic sites, the porous structures, etc all affect catalytic performances in pyrolysis of municipal solid waste. Up to now, there have been a number of catalysts developed for catalytic pyrolysis of the mixture of municipal solid waste. These catalysts, depending on their specifications, show the distinct catalytic performances in catalytic pyrolysis of municipal solid waste and also varied lifetime span in the pyrolysis, etc. The feasibility of the catalysts in especially the application in industrial scale needs further evaluation and verification. This review dedicates to the progress of the development of the catalysts for catalytic pyrolysis of mixed municipal solid waste. The advantages and disadvantages of each types of catalysts are discussed and compared. Suggestions were given for the future stages of developments of catalyst for the small to large-scale operation of catalytic pyrolysis of municipal solid waste. The results of techno-economic review showed that catalyst could reduce the amount of emission and produce more valuable products. However, the cost of regeneration might increase the cost of operation significantly.