Microbial lipid biosynthesis from lignocellulosic biomass pyrolysis products Lipids are a biorefinery platform to prepare fuel, food and health products. They are traditionally obtained from plants, but those of microbial origin allow for a better use of land and C resources, among other benefits. Several (thermo)chemical and biochemical strategies are used for the conversion of C contained in lignocellulosic biomass into lipids. In particular, pyrolysis can process virtually any biomass and is easy to scale up. Products offer cost-effective, renewable C in the form of readily fermentable molecules and other upgradable intermediates. Although the production of microbial lipids has been studied for 30 years, their incorporation into biorefineries was only described a few years ago. As pyrolysis becomes a profitable technology to depolymerize lignocellulosic biomass into assimilable C, the number of investigations on it raises significantly. This article describes the challenges and opportunities resulting from the combination of lignocellulosic biomass pyrolysis and lipid biosynthesis with oleaginous microorganisms. First, this work presents the basics of the individual processes, and then it shows state-of-the-art processes for the preparation of microbial lipids from biomass pyrolysis products. Advanced knowledge on separation techniques, structure analysis, and fermentability is detailed for each biomass pyrolysis fraction. Finally, the microbial fatty acid platform comprising biofuel, human food and animal feed products, and others, is presented. Literature shows that the microbial lipid production from anhydrosugars, like levoglucosan, and short-chain organic acids, like acetic acid, is straightforward. Indeed, processes achieving nearly theoretical yields form the latter have been described. Some authors have shown that lipid biosynthesis from different lignin sources is biochemically feasible. However, it still imposes major challenges regarding strain performance. No report on the fermentation of pyrolytic lignin is yet available. Research on the microbial uptake of pyrolytic humins remains vacant. Microorganisms that make use of methane show promising results at the proof-of-concept level. Overall, despite some issues need to be tackled, it is now possible to conceive new versatile biorefinery models by combining lignocellulosic biomass pyrolysis products and robust oleaginous microbial cell factories.