Multi-parameter optimization and predictive modeling of pyrolysis of walnut shells in fixed bed reactor using response surface methodology and machine learning algorithms The present study evaluated the pyrolysis potential of walnut shells, focusing on the impact of key process parameters such as heating rate, temperature, and inert gas flow rate. Additionally, the research involved modeling and optimization of these parameters using hybrid approach that integrates response surface methodology (RSM) with machine learning (ML). The experimental design and optimization were conducted using the face-centered central composite design (FCCD), considering key process parameters such as temperature, heating rate and inert flow rate. This approach aimed to analyze their influence on the yield of bio-oil and bio-char. Integrated approach of RSM (R2 = 0.92) and ML (decision tree, R2 = 0.74) demonstrated a higher prediction accuracy and lower error margins. The optimized conditions were predicted at a temperature of 692.47 °C, a heating rate of 49.93 °C/min, and inert gas flow rate of 238.30 ML/min., resulting a maximum bio-oil yields of 37.57 % and 37.56 % as predicted by RSM and ML modelling, respectively. The combination of RSM with ML, specifically Decision Tree Regression (DT), yielded enhanced predictive accuracy and minimized error margins, demonstrating the robustness of the hybrid modelling approach. Gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) techniques highlighted that the bio-oil was composed of various organic compounds (e.g., phenols, furans, etc.). Bio-oil derived from walnut shell pyrolysis can be used as an alternative of conventional transportation fuels after some upgradation. The higher heating value of biochar obtained at optimized condition was 24.62 MJ/kg, which can be as used as bio-coal. Among the non-condensable gases generated during pyrolysis, methane and carbon dioxide emerged as the most abundant constituents, comprising approximately 49.40 mol.% and 18.99 mol.%, respectively on nitrogen free basis. The study showed that walnut shells can be effectively valorized through pyrolysis process to produce sustainable bioenergy while reducing reliance on fossil fuels and promoting sustainable resource management.