Hydrocarbon recovery from on-shore oil-based drill cuttings (OBDCs) by fast pyrolysis over waste-derived ZSM-5 and CaO catalysts using Py-GCMS Oil-based drill cuttings (OBDCs), by-products generated during the oil exploration and production process, are classified as hazardous waste, leading to severe environmental safety problems. As a result, the treatment of OBDCs has gained increased attention. Among the treatment methods, pyrolysis is considered a promising technology due to its high economic benefits, efficient energy recovery, and low pollutant emissions. In this work, OBDCs obtained from an onshore drilling site in Thailand were used as feedstocks. The catalytic pyrolysis of OBDCs over ZSM-5 derived from fly ash (FA-ZSM-5) and CaO derived from paper industrial waste (LM-CaO) was investigated using Py-GC/MS. To study the feasibility of reducing heavy hydrocarbon as well as oxygenates and N-containing compounds in drilling cutting residues, the effect of pyrolysis temperatures (400–700°C), types of catalysts and catalyst to OBDC ratio (1:1, 5;1 and 10:1) on hydrocarbon selectivity was studied. In the non-catalytic run, a high hydrocarbon content of 86.72 % was achieved at 600°C, with a low content of oxygenates and nitrogen-containing compounds. In catalytic pyrolysis, FA-ZSM-5 exhibited superior efficiency in enhancing the production of aliphatics and aromatics while simultaneously reducing heteroatom compounds. This enhanced performance can be attributed to its high surface area, acidity, and unique pore structure. At an FA-ZSM-5 to OBDC ratio of 5:1, the aliphatic fraction increased to 91.09 %, while the levels of oxygenated and nitrogen-containing compounds were significantly reduced. Additionally, the aromatic content remained below 5 %, with no detectable formation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). Both FA-ZSM-5 and LM-CaO catalysts improved the selectivity of gasoline (C5-C11) and diesel (C12-C22), while the selectivity of long chain hydrocarbon (C>22) decreased. Furthermore, the highest selectivity for light hydrocarbons (C5-C22) was achieved when using the FA-ZSM-5 catalyst at low catalyst contents (ratios of 1:1 and 1:5). These findings suggest that OBDCs can be effectively treated through the catalytic pyrolysis process using ZSM-5 and CaO catalysts derived from industrial waste to produce alternative fuels with reduced heavy components, particularly within the gasoline and diesel range, as well as valuable chemicals.