Microplastics in sewage sludge: Distribution, toxicity, identification methods, and engineered technologies Microplastic pollution is becoming a global challenge due to its long-term accumulation in the environment, causing adverse effects on human health and the ecosystem. Sludge discharged from wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) plays a critical role as a carrier and primary source of environmental microplastic contamination. A significantly average microplastic variation between 1000 and 301,400 particles kg−1 has been reported in the sludge samples. In recent years, advanced technologies have been successfully applied to address this issue, including adsorption, advanced oxidation processes (AOPs), and membrane bioreactors (MBRs). Adsorption technologies are essential to utilizing novel adsorbents (e.g., biochar, graphene, zeolites) for effectively removing MPs. Especially, the removal efficiency of polymer microspheres from an aqueous solution by Mg/Zn modified magnetic biochars (Mg/Zn-MBC) was obtained at more than 95%. Also, advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) are widely applied to degrade microplastic contaminants, in which photocatalytic by semiconductors (e.g., TiO2 and ZnO) is a highly suitable approach to promote the degradation reactions owing to strongly hydroxyl radicals (OH*). Biological degradation-aided microorganisms (e.g., bacterial and fungal strains) have been reported to be suitable for removing microplastics. Yet, it was affected by biotic and abiotic factors of the environmental conditions (e.g., pH, light, temperature, moisture, bio-surfactants, microorganisms, enzymes) as well as their polymer characteristics, i.e., molecular weight, functional groups, and crystallinity. Notably, membrane bioreactors (MBRs) showed the highest efficiency in removing up to 99% microplastic particles and minimizing their contamination in sewage sludge. Further, MBRs illustrate the suitability for treating high-strength compounds, e.g., polymer debris and microplastic fibers from complex industrial wastewater. Finally, this study provided a comprehensive understanding of potential adverse risks, transportation pathways, and removal mechanisms of microplastic, which full-filled the knowledge gaps in this field.