bio-FLASHCHAIN® theory for rapid devolatilization of biomass. 5. Interpreting AAEM catalysis in primary cellulose devolatilization This paper extends cel-FC, the reaction mechanism for the devolatilization of mineral-free cellulose formulated in Part 4 of this series, to cover catalysis by alkali and alkaline earth metals (AAEMs) in parallel with the spontaneous reaction channels. Quantitative comparisons with data cover temperatures to 600 °C, heating rates from 100 to 5000 °C/s, contact times after heatup to 30 s, pressures of vacuum and 0.1 MPa, and K and Ca loadings to 0.0415 mol cation/mol glucose. Collectively the catalytic processes are responsible for an enormous breadth of devolatilization behavior over the range of typical AAEM loadings in whole biomass. AAEMs catalyze depolymerization via scission and unzipping as well as monomer decomposition and charring but with much different sensitivities. AAEM catalysis lowers the activation energies for all four reaction processes. For scission and unzipping, the shift moves the onset of devolatilization toward cooler temperatures. Monomer decomposition has the strongest shift to explain both suppressed oil production, due to the accelerated conversion of labile bridges into refractory char links, and enhanced gas production, as noncondensables are the explicit products of this process. Oil molecular weight distributions (MWDs) become heavier for progressively heavier AAEM loadings due primarily to suppression of isolated modified levoglucosan units. Consequently, the lighter halves of the oil MWDs for vacuum and atmospheric pressure are very similar for the heaviest AAEM loadings, contrary to the preponderance of monomers and dimers in oils from mineral-free cellulose at atmospheric pressure. Depolymerization accelerates compared to monomer decomposition in extrapolations to faster heating rates, which enhances oil yields. Consequently, the impacts of AAEM catalysis are much stronger at slower heating rates than at faster rates.