Study on pyrolysis process and mechanism of organic coating of waste polyesterimide enameled wire based on density functional theory The pyrolysis treatment of waste polyesterimide enameled wire offers significant advantages such as continuous processing, non-hazardous nature, and high resource recovery rate. However, research on its pyrolysis process and mechanism remains insufficiently explored. In this study, techniques including thermogravimetry (TG), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy(FT-IR), pyrolysis–gas chromatography-mass spectrometry(Py-GC/MS) were employed to investigate pyrolysis temperature, weight loss rate, pyrolysis and kinetic parameters, composition and distribution of pyrolysis products, and changes in functional groups under different temperatures and heating rates. The pyrolysis of polyesterimide enameled wire can be divided into three stages: volatilization of specific components (314.8 °C,1.6 %), rapid decomposition of polyesterimide (435.2 °C, 44.7 %), and generation of small organic molecules with the fixation of pyrolytic carbon (750 °C, 9.0 %). The main components of the pyrolysis gas products include aromatic compounds, ethers, aromatics, ketones, and carbon dioxide. At 400 °C, a substantial amount of pyrolysis gas products and free radicals are produced, with an increase in aromatic hydrocarbons. The carbon distribution in the pyrolysis products mainly focuses on C6-C10 and C11-C15, and many organic compounds such as benzoic acid, phenol, and aniline are generated. Based on density functional theory, the bond dissociation energies in the polyesterimide were calculated. This clarified the possible thermal decomposition pathways of the polyesterimide and provided the energy barrier values, elucidating the generation mechanism of pyrolysis products during thermal decomposition. The copper atom in specific location reduces the negative ESP of O and increases the positive ESP of H in EPI, which makes H more likely to attach to O. The presence of Cu increases the ESP range and promote the pyrolysis process. This study provides a theoretical basis for the high-value recycling of waste polyesterimide enamelled wire.