Potassium and phosphorous co-doped g-C3N4/shrimp shell biochar composite attached onto polylactic acid degradable mulching film for photocatalytic removal of atrazine in water and soil “White pollution” of traditional plastic mulching film and biotoxicity of pesticide residues are commonly threatened sources in ecological environment, but the methods for simultaneously reducing them are still limited. Herein, polylactic acid degradable mulch film (PLA-MF) was firstly chosen as desired substrate modified by potassium, phosphorus co-doped g-C3N4 (K-P-CN) combined with shrimp shell biochar (SSB) (The composite was denoted as K-P-CN/SSB, and the composite after coating was named as PLA-MF/K-P-CN/SSB), which was used to remove atrazine (ATZ) in water and soil through photocatalysis. The doping of K and P into g-C3N4 significantly promoted absorption of K-P-CN shifted to a more visible region for sunlight utilization, contributing to the increased interlayer spacing of g-C3N4 and separation of photogenerated electrons-holes. SSB, acting as an electron acceptor, further reduced the recombination rate of photogenerated carriers and enhanced the photocatalytic performance of K-P-CN/SSB by synergistic effect. PLA-MF/K-P-CN/SSB system exhibited effective removal of ATZ with degradation efficiency in water (90 %, 8 h) and soil (50 %, 24 h) under the visible light irradiation. The degraded mechanism and pathways of ATZ were proposed as dechlorination, dealkylation, and hydroxylation. Pot experiments revealed that the agricultural indexes of Chinese white cabbage in soil were evidently increased with K-P-CN/SSB and PLA-MF/K-P-CN/SSB treatments. Several nutrients in soil, including total nitrogen (TN), total potassium (TK), total phosphorus (TP) and organic carbon (OC), were also enhanced. Especially, K, P additions could improve 1.60 and 2.09 times of soil organic carbon compared to those with plastic film and the Blank treatments. These results suggest that the proposed method may provide a novel approach for reducing traditional plastic film and organic contaminants’ pollution for plant growth by photocatalytic technology.