Fast co-pyrolysis of corncob with plastics: Evaluation of thermal behavior using deconvolution procedure, kinetic analysis and product characterization In this study, the co-pyrolysis of corncob (CC) with polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) was first carried out at different blending ratios in a concentrating photothermal TGA (CP-TGA) to gain insights into their thermal behavior, pyrolysis characteristics and kinetic analysis under high heating rate conditions (≥500°C/min). The change in comprehensive pyrolysis index (CPI) for CC/PET and CC/PVC blends was 514 % and 125 %, respectively, when their blending ratio was increased from 25 wt% to 75 wt%. The decomposition rate (Rp %/min) for CC/PET and CC/PVC blends with an increased heating rate showed a favorable co-pyrolysis process. Rapid heating leads to complexity and simultaneous overlapping of the co-pyrolysis components; therefore, the devolatilization phase (active pyrolysis zone) was divided into pseudo-reactions using the Fraser-Suzuki deconvolution function. The deconvolution results of the blend samples fitted well with experimental results (R2 ≥ 0.997). The three pseudo components of CC in the CC25PET75% blend relatively reduced the needed activation energy (E) for PET degradation to about 130 %. With the blending ratio increase, the synergistic activity of pseudo hemicellulose presented trends of an increasing E in CC/PET blends, whereas CC/PVC blends showed decreasing trends. The relative ΔEa deviation revealed that most blend samples would promote an active synergistic reaction. The resultant co-pyrolysis oil from photothermal fixed bed pyrolyzer contained promising bio-renewable platform chemicals such as levoglucosenone, furfural, D-allose, etc. The synergistic interactions between pseudo-lignin and PET contributed to a significant reduction in activation energy and higher selectivity of acetic acid due to the degradation of the ester bonds in PET and the carboxyl groups in lignin. The results of this work could serve as a guide for selecting appropriate reaction parameters for optimal co-pyrolysis synergism.