Title: Study on kinetics and products of co-pyrolysis of polyvinyl chloride and polyethylene terephthalate
Abstract: The production of plastic waste is increasing rapidly. Landfilling and incineration, as common recycling methods, are no longer sufficient to meet environmental protection requirements. Therefore, plastic pyrolysis has attracted widespread attention. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) are both typical components of waste plastics. Due to the overlap in their application fields, they often coexist in the collected waste plastics. Therefore, co-pyrolysis of PVC and PET plastics appears to be more valuable for research. This study was conducted based on thermogravimetric analysis (TG), Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC–MS), and their combined techniques. It was found that when PVC and PET are mixed, the stage II of the pyrolysis reaction of PVC plastic is enhanced, and the yield of aromatic organic substances in stage II of the co-pyrolysis reaction of the mixed plastic significantly decreases. Due to the insufficient ability of the traditional KAS method in analyzing the kinetics of complex multi-step reactions, this study combines the mathematical method of Gaussian peak fitting with the KAS method, and fits the TG curve of plastic pyrolysis into a multi-stage reaction curve with peaks, and conducts independent analysis. Compared with single-component plastics, the average apparent activation energy of PVC-PET mixed plastics is lower, and there is a synergistic effect between the pyrolysis reactions of the two plastics. The energy demand of the mixed plastics co-pyrolysis reaction is more stable, which is conducive to the stable operation of the equipment in industrial production and reduces energy loss. And the solid product of PVC-PET co-pyrolysis has a loose texture that is not easily adhered to the surface of the pyrolysis reactor, effectively reducing the risk of equipment scorching.