Title: Catalytic activity of Ni-MgAl2O4 modified with transition metal (Ti, Mo, W) carbides as potential catalysts for resource recovery via dry reforming of waste plastics
Abstract: The growing amounts of plastic waste and CO2 emissions are two environmental threats that require urgent attention. Pyrolysis combined with dry reforming (PCDR) is a technology that allows both CO2 utilization and resource recovery from waste plastic. New catalysts for PCDR are crucial for developing efficient and stable processes that can be widely implemented in the industry. In this study, Ni/MgAl2O4 catalysts modified using different transition metal (Ti, Mo, W) carbides were investigated in the PCDR of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) and polystyrene (PS) with emphasis on syngas yield, H2/CO ratio, product distribution, and catalyst deactivation. In addition, the effect of reforming temperature and process pressure was investigated. The catalysts were characterized using H2-TPR, CO2-TPD, N2 physisorption, XRD, TEM, XPS and TGA. The combined characterization and activity tests demonstrated that modification with different metal carbides affects the structure and activity of Ni/MgAl2O4 catalysts in relation to product yields, syngas composition, and catalyst stability. The investigation revealed that modification of nickel catalysts with different transition metal carbides enables manipulation of syngas composition, which is of great importance because different industrial processes require synthesis gas with different H2:CO ratios. Moreover, mixed outcomes were observed when different plastic feedstocks were used in the PCDR, indicating that different metal carbide-modified catalysts may be suitable for the process depending on the feedstock used. Regarding the effectiveness of synthesis gas production and catalyst stability, the most promising catalyst was the Ni-TiC/MgAl2O4 catalyst. According to the obtained results, modification with TiC resulted not only in increased synthesis gas production but also in reduced carbon deposition in PCDR of both LDPE and PS.