Influence of preservation methods on biochemical composition and downstream processing of cultivated Saccharina latissima biomass Saccharina latissima biomass cultivated along the Swedish west coast was subjected to four different scalable preservation methods after harvest; freezing, sun-drying, oven-drying and ensiling. Freeze-drying and freezing at −80 °C were also included to provide dry and wet references. The effects of the different preservation methods on the composition of Saccharina biomass (on dry weight, DW, basis), and the recovery as well as properties of high-quality protein, alginate and biogas were evaluated. Sun-drying significantly reduced protein, alginate and fatty acid content of the seaweeds and thereby concentrated ash in the biomass compared to the other methods. Protein/amino acids and fatty acids were significantly concentrated in ensiled biomass, while mannitol and laminarin were reduced compared to the other biomasses. Oven-drying and −20 °C freezing affected the composition the least, with lower ash content and alterations in some specific amino and fatty acids. Sun-drying and ensiling resulted in significantly lower protein solubility at high pH compared to the other biomasses which translated into the lowest total seaweed protein recovery using the pH-shift process. Highest protein yield was obtained with the freeze-dried reference. Ensiling lead to a significant decrease in the molecular weight of alginate, while sun-drying caused a negative effect on alginate by inducing a shift in the guluronic and mannuronic acids composition of alginate. Sun-drying gave the lowest methane yield in the anaerobic digestion experiments while freezing at −80 °C gave the highest yield, closely followed by freezing at −20 °C and ensiling. To conclude, preservation methods must be carefully chosen to protect the valuable component in Saccharina latissima, and to achieve an efficient downstream processing ultimately yielding high quality products as part of a seaweed biorefinery.