Predicting the electrochemical performance of biomass derived carbon hosts in lithium–sulfur batteries using machine learning Porous carbon materials are generally employed as sulfur hosts in lithium–sulfur (Li–S) batteries to address the poor conductivity of sulfur, volume changes during charge/discharge, and polysulfide shuttling. In this context, biomass-derived carbon materials have garnered significant attention owing to their eco-friendliness, tunable porosity, and cost-effectiveness. However, the selection of biomass is often arbitrary, with its application and performance largely relying on a trial-and-error approach. To overcome this limitation, this study leverages machine learning (ML) to predict the electrochemical performance of carbon materials derived from diverse biomass sources as hosts in Li–S batteries. By utilizing experimental data from published literature and feature engineering, the ML models identify the key factors influencing battery performance and enable systematic identification of promising biomass precursors. In essence, biomass composition, carbon synthesis conditions, and current density are selected as critical features. Pearson correlation coefficients guide feature selection, while SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) analysis determines the relative importance of features for different models. Among different models, Histogram gradient boosting machine (HistGBM) exhibits superior predictive performance, maintaining consistently high accuracy across all datasets, achieving reliable predictions with a prediction error as low as 9.67 % (47.94 mAh/g). Besides usual training and testing, the developed model is also validated using an in-house data set obtained from activated jackfruit peel-derived carbon as a sulfur host, reinforcing its predictive accuracy and reliability with a prediction error of 6.45% (21.48 mAh/g). Overall, the ML-based approach can reduce experimental efforts, enhance material optimization, and accelerate the development of high-performance sulfur host materials.