Fabrication of novel glutathione-Fe3O4-loaded/activated carbon encapsulated sand bionanocomposites for enhanced removal of diethyl phthalate from aqueous environment in a vertical flow reactor The extensive use of plasticizers in various industries has made Diethyl phthalate (DEP), a serious threat to the environment and ecological water security, owing to its complex-structure and low-biodegradability. Thus, the present study aimed to design a sustainable sand-coated nano glutathione (GSH) -Fe3O4-loaded/activated carbon (AC) bionanocomposite (AC-GSH-Fe3O4@sand bionanocomposite) for effective removal of DEP from water. Characterization results suggested bionanocomposites' rough and irregular texture due to the uneven distribution of AC and Fe3O4 nanoparticles over the sand. The XRD spectra indicated high crystallinity of bionanocomposites, while the FTIR spectra confirmed the presence of all individual components, i.e., GSH, AC, Fe3O4, and sand. EDX-mapping, AFM, and TGA further verified its elemental composition, topographical changes and thermal stability. The inﬂuence of pH (3, 7, 9), bed height (2, 4, 6) cm, and flow rate (2.5, 3.5, 4.5) mL min−1 were studied in a dynamic system with an initial DEP concentration of 50 mg L−1 to investigate the removal behavior of the bionanocomposites. The best DEP removal efficiency (90.18 %) was achieved over 28-h at pH 9, bed-height-4 cm, and flow-rate-3.5 mL min−1, with an optimum qmax-200.25 mg g−1 as determined through Thomas-model. Breakthrough curves were predicted using various column models, and the corresponding parameters essential for column-reactor process design were calculated. The high reusability up to the 10th cycle (≥83.32%) and the effective treatment in complex matrices (tap-water: 90.11 %, river-water: 89.72 %, wastewater: 83.83%) demonstrated bionanocomposites’ prominent sustainability. Additionally, the production cost at 6.64 USD per Kg, underscores its potentiality for industrial application. Phytotoxicity assessment on mung-bean revealed better root (5.02 ± 0.27 cm) and shoot (17.64 ± 0.35 cm) growth in the bionanocomposite-treated DEP samples over the untreated samples. Thus, AC-GSH-Fe3O4@sand bionanocomposites could be considered a highly-sustainable, low-cost technique for the effective removal of DEP and other phthalate-esters from contaminated matrices.