Title: Sustainable recycling of waste toner powder via pyrolysis: high-value bio-oil production and biochar catalyst Innovation
Abstract: Waste toner powder is one of the main types of electronic waste, causing serious health and environmental problems challenges. A large portion of waste toner isn’t recycled and is instead dumped in landfills due to limitations in recycling technologies. Pyrolysis is an important method used to convert different types of wastes into valuable products, primarily bio-oil. This study investigates the potential of pyrolysis as a recycling option for WTP, a process not previously investigated in detail. Firstly, the degradation and kinetics of waste toner powder were evaluated. Secondly, the pyrolysis of waste toner powder was carried out in a fixed bed reactor at different temperatures ranging from 450 °C to 650 °C, and the ultimate analysis of the produced bio-oil and biochar was presented. Thirdly, the potential of using biochar as a catalyst in biomass pyrolysis was investigated. The kinetic parameters, mainly the activation energy and pre-exponential factor, and the thermodynamic parameters were estimated. The obtained results showed that the average value of activation energy ranged from 152.2 to 152.8 kJ/mol. The pyrolysis experiments revealed that increasing temperature increased bio-oil yield by 27 %. The ultimate analysis of the produced bio-oil indicated high carbon and hydrogen contents of 75.68 % and 8.165 %, respectively, with a higher heating value of 37 MJ/kg. The XRF analysis indicated that the waste toner powder biochar contains a higher iron oxide content of 81.15 %, which improves its catalyst characteristics, thus it was used as in the pyrolysis of the doum shell. Using biochar, a catalyst in the pyrolysis of doum shell waste increased the bio-oil yield from 20 % to 40 %, representing a remarkable improvement of 100 %. The study findings present waste toner powder as a valuable source of bio-oil and a low-cost catalyst for waste pyrolysis.