Theoretical and experimental study on the pyrolysis of N-methylpyrrolidone As a widely used organic solvent, N-methylpyrrolidone (NMP) may suffer thermal decomposition during large-scale industrial usage. The complex potential energy surface and corresponding pressure-dependent rate coefficients of NMP and NMP radicals were obtained at a high level of theory. The intermediates and products of NMP pyrolysis within 900–1200 K were identified and measured by synchrotron vacuum ultraviolet photoionization mass spectrometry. Theoretical calculations show that the Keto-enol tautomerization and direct ring-opening channel yielding C2H4, CO, and CH3NCH2 exhibit the highest rate coefficient among NMP unimolecular reactions at low and high temperatures, respectively. However, the fuel decomposition process cannot be exclusively dominated by single low-barrier channel. The ring-opening reaction forming imino aldehyde radical and following decarbonylation reactions are favored channels during the NMP radical decomposition, while the formation of the dihydropyrrolidone via H or CH3 loss competes with them at higher temperatures. Various smaller heterocycle radicals can be produced and act as intermediates for the multi-step isomerization of the ring-opening products with a relatively low energy barrier, changing the position of the functional group and radical site. A variety of nitrogenous and oxygenated species were observed in the experiment, such as ketene, methyl isocyanate, pyrrole, benzene, and different kinds of imines. Among them, C2H4, HCN, and CO are the major products for NMP decomposition. Potential reaction pathways from NMP to the major experimentally observed products were inferred based on the calculated results and existing knowledge on the pyrolysis of nitrogenous and oxygenated compounds. These results shed light on the complex C/H/O/N reaction system. The calculated rate coefficients and extensive mole fractions data could provide good support for the modeling of a detailed reaction mechanism in the future.