Inhibition mechanism of spontaneous combustion in oil tank sulfur corrosion products based on ionic liquids desulfurization: Experiments and molecular dynamics simulation The active organic sulfur increases the likelihood of spontaneous combustion of oil tank and environmental pollution. To better prevent such issues, this study investigates the inhibition of spontaneous combustion in oil tank sulfur corrosion products through the removal of organic sulfur. From both microscopic and macroscopic perspectives, we examine the effectiveness of three ionic liquids—1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate, 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate and 1-octyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate—in desulfurization and their ability to inhibit spontaneous combustion in oil tank sulfur corrosion products. Scanning electron microscopy, simultaneous thermal analysis, and kinetic modeling were employed to analyze changes in surface morphology, oxidative characteristics, and reaction mechanisms before and after ionic liquids treatment. Additionally, molecular dynamics simulations using Materials Studio software were conducted to study the adsorption behavior of organic sulfur compounds on iron sulfide surfaces under different conditions. The results demonstrated that ionic liquids treatment significantly delayed the oxidation of iron sulfide compounds, with the extrapolated onset temperature of high-temperature oxidation increasing from 851.67 K (control) to 888.41 K for 1-octyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate-treated samples. The corresponding oxidation peak temperature rose from 902.93 K to 936.57 K. Furthermore, the apparent activation energy increased from 189.87 kJ mol−1 in the control group to 218.81 kJ mol−1 after 1-octyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate treatment, indicating a notable suppression of spontaneous combustion. Molecular dynamics simulations showed that the binding energies of n-butyl sulfide and dibenzothiophene on FeS surfaces decreased by 30.29 % and 39.05 %, respectively, after ionic liquids addition. These findings suggest that ionic liquids improve thermal stability and inhibit the catalytic role of organic sulfur in promoting combustion. Overall, this study not only provides theoretical insights into desulfurization-based inhibition mechanisms but also contributes to safer storage of petroleum products, reduction of fire and explosion risks, and protection of environmental and public safety at a societal level.