Mechanistic insights into the pyrolysis of pine resin sludge based on experiments and ReaxFF-MD simulation: High-value bio-oil production, nitrogen conversion, kinetics and environmental risk assessment Forestry and agro-industrial waste conversion into high-value chemicals and fuels is considered one of the hottest ongoing research and industrial topics toward sustainable development. As one of the forestry and agro-industrial waste, pine resin sludge (PRS) with amino acids, pine resin residues and their derivatives such as abietic acid and 4-Epidehydroabietal, have ecological toxicity and require environmentally friendly treatment. Herein, a thermal process of PRS that generates high-value biofuels while reducing environmental pollution was reported. The results of the experiment and simulation reveal that the N of bio-oil is the major evolution direction of N, and the nitrogenous gas product is mainly NH3, a useful synthesis gas. ReaxFF-MD simulations elucidated the migration and conversion mechanism of nitrogen in amino acids. The main products of amino acid pyrolysis are 3-oxo-2-Propenenitrile, 2,4-Cyclopentadien-1-ylidenemethanone and 4R)-4-amino-5,5-dihydroxypentanoic acid. PRS's thermal weightlessness was divided into three phases, and the average activation under non-isothermal conditions was calculated at 78.17, 85.68, 206.42 kJ/mol (thermal decomposition) and final 117.78, 149.31, 195.54 kJ/mol (thermal oxidation). Thermal decomposition and oxidation process followed Avrami-Erofeev model (n=2), three-dimensional diffusion model (n=3) and mampel power (n=1). PY-GC/MS analysis shows that pyrolysis at different temperatures recovered mainly 4-Epidehydroabietal (37.15–89.67 %) for potential use as the biosynthesis of dehydrofolate. The bio-oil from PRS pyrolysis shows an excellent yield (31.43 %) and a high calorific value (37.21 MJ/kg), which is comparable to biodiesel. This work focused on offering an appealing and instructive guide for the logical treatment of sludge from pine resin production.