Preparation of environmental remediation material based on manganese-slag and sewage sludge as a strategy for remediation of cadmium pollution Both manganese-slag and sewage sludge are typical solid wastes, but their utilization is limited. Based on the soil properties, the abovementioned pollutants were combined with Broussonetia papyrifera to treat soil cadmium (Cd) pollution. Three materials (sewage sludge-derived biochar (SSB), Mn-SSB, and Mn-slag (Slag)) were prepared using oxygen-limited pyrolysis technology with Slag and sewage sludge, and the effects of the three materials on the phytoremediation of Cd-polluted soil were investigated. All three materials had distinct morphological characteristics, good functional group structure, specific surface area, and porosity. The adsorption and leaching experiments in the solution indicated that the three materials could not only directly absorb Cd2+ but also release nutrients, such as nitrogen and phosphorus. The soil pH increased significantly (p < 0.05) with the addition of the above environmental remediation materials. Furthermore, the contents of soil organic carbon, available nitrogen, and available phosphorus in soil increased significantly, whereas the electrical conductivity of the soil decreased significantly (p < 0.05). During remediation of Cd-polluted soil by integrating the above materials with B. papyrifera, Slag significantly increased the B. papyrifera biomass, but the effects of SSB and Mn-SSB were not significant. SSB, Mn-SSB, and Slag significantly increased the protein content of B. papyrifera leaves, with Mn-SSB having the most significant effect (p < 0.05). The applications of SSB, Mn-SSB, and Slag reduced the malondialdehyde content and increased the activities of superoxide dismutase and peroxidase, reducing the damage to B. papyrifera. Mn-SSB significantly reduced the Cd content in the roots, stems, and leaves of B. papyrifera, and SSB and Slag promoted Cd enrichment in B. papyrifera. This study realized the comprehensive utilization of Mn-slag and sewage sludge and established a recycling system from solid waste to the treatment of waste soil.