An updated review on synthetic approaches of green nanomaterials and their application for removal of water pollutants: Current challenges, assessment and future perspectives Green nanotechnology is an emerging multidisciplinary field for the implementation of sustainable principles employing biosynthesized nanomaterials. Nowadays, because of environmental concerns, safe, energy-efficient processes, reduce waste, and lessen greenhouse gas emissions are in trend. Moreover, green nanomaterials (GNMs) are biocompatible, harmless, cost-effective, biodegradable, eco-friendly, and easily tuneable. Different parts of plants (leaves, seeds, fruit, and flower), microorganisms (bacteria, algae, and fungi), agricultural and diverse waste materials are being used for their generation. Raw materials and reaction parameters are deciding factors for the properties of GNMs with peculiar characteristics of high surface activity, specific size, and purity that strengthen their multifunctional use in industries and environmental remediation. Several pollutants of organic and inorganic origin like polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, dyes, pesticides, heavy metals, phenols, and pharmaceutical waste pose a negative/huge adverse impact and threat to the environment and human beings on exposure. Photodegradation and adsorption, and complex formation were the likely mechanisms in the efficient removal of contaminants. Because of increasing demands and environmental benefits, it is fruitful to review and summarized articles into a single packet on the updated status of GNMs, including classification, synthetic methodologies with mechanism, and their use in the elimination of contaminants. Scientific assessments of research conducted in the last 5-years for this burning area have been stretched, plus a comparison of pros-cons of traditional NMs and GNMs. Finally, the review paper discussed the possible safety and toxicity assessment of such nanomaterials and concluded beneficial aspects of GNMs for advanced research and future recommendations to be implemented.