Efficient removal of carbon monoxide from low-temperature sintering flue gas by non-thermal plasma catalytic coupling system Plasma coupled CuMnOx enhances catalytic activity of CO in low-temperature flue gas. Without plasma, the CO conversion rate is 4 % at room temperature, which exceeds 50 % under the optimal discharge condition of 350 J/L, increasing 12 times. Additional, the conversion rate is close to 100 % at a sintering flue gas temperature of 110℃. The turnover frequency of Mn sites increased from 0.0193 h−1 to 0.0233 h−1, and CO reaction rate increased from 0.20 to 1.31 μmol/(g*s), increasing 7.5 times. Dynamics studies shown that NTP coupling reduces the Ea of CO oxidation reaction from 40.8 kJ/mol to 17.4 kJ/mol, improving the low-temperature reaction activity. Research found that the enhanced effect of electron cloud overlap causes Coulomb repulsion, leading to lattice rupture after non-thermal plasma treatment. The high-energy particles by ionization undergo ionization and recombination of transition metal atoms through continuous bombardment, eliminating phase separation phenomena and forming more active Cu–O-Mn phase structures, efficiently reactivating inert lattice oxygen, thereby overcoming the limitations associated with thermal deactivation. Meanwhile, plasma induced electron injection, increasing the electron density of transition metal d-orbitals, causing the center of the d-band to shift upwards, leading to the transfer of electron clouds to antibonding orbitals and triggering the electron scissor effect, thereby reducing the stability of CO adsorption. It results in the release of Cu+ sites on the surface, which act as Lewis acid sites and participate in the adsorption and decomposition of O3 and other oxidation discharge products. The above effects collectively transform CO oxidation from a single mechanism to a synergistic effect of multiple mechanisms. This also provides new ideas for the design of subsequent flue gas treatment processes.