Current development of 1D and 2D metallic nanomaterials for the application of transparent conductors in solar cells: Fabrication and modeling Although transparent conductive oxides (TCOs) including indium tin oxide (ITO), fluorine tin oxide (FTO) and Aluminum-doped Zinc oxide (AZO) have been commercialized, and they can be found in many consumer electronics, TCOs are mechanically brittle and this issue actually limits them to the application of future flexible solar cell devices. Therefore, one-dimensional (1D) metallic materials such as nanowires (NWs) have widely studied as transparent conductors because they exhibit excellent electrical and optical properties due to the quantum confinement effect that occurs in such structural one-dimensionality. More importantly, they are ductile as compared to traditional TCOs. Since demand for modern electronic devices have been escalating, a great variety of 1D materials such as bimetallic or core–shell metallic NWs, metal–oxide, metal–CNTs/Graphene and metal–polymer composite 1-D nanomaterials have been developing owing to the fact that their electrical, optical, and mechanical performance becomes several order of magnitude higher than the pure metal NWs, especially under extreme mechanical and chemical conditions. Derived from those metal NW researches, advanced two-dimensional (2D) metallic materials such as nanomesh and nanogrid are designed as potential alternative to replace either conventional TCO films or random metal NW-based films due to their ample carriers (electrons) can transport consistently through this solid metallic network and are collected by the contact terminals without significantly compromising the optical transmittance. Moreover, metal nanomesh and nanogrid architectures possesses excellent flexibility, which can withstand even more harsh mechanical conditions. Therefore, they can provide a great potential for the emerging super-flexible and stretchable devices. Despite the aforementioned advantages, scalable fabrication of 1D and 2D nanomaterials is still a challenging research topic, in terms of the yield and quality. To integrate nanoscale building blocks into high-performance devices further requires more sophisticated designs. In this review, we emphasize on the current development of 1D and 2D nanomaterials in the application of transparent conductors in renewable energy devices. Computational simulation methods for property prediction and device design will also be reviewed. Additionally, we also discuss the promising fabrication methods for those nanomaterials that are considered to be scalable, applicable, and budget-wise to this solar industry.