Facemasks: An insight into their abundance in wetlands, degradation, and potential ecotoxicity Disposable facemasks represent a new form of environmental contamination worldwide. This study aimed at addressing the abundance of facemasks in an overlooked natural environment with high ecological and economic value – the wetlands (Ria de Aveiro, Portugal, as study case), evaluating their potential biodegradation using naturally occurring fungi and assessing the potential ecotoxicity of released microfibres on local bivalves. All masks collected within 6500 m2 area of Aveiro wetland were 100 % disposable ones (PP-based, confirmed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy - FTIR) with an initial abundance of 0.0023 items/m2 in Sept. 2021, which was reduced by ∼40 % in Apr. 2022 and ∼87 % in Sept. 2022, as a reflection of the government policies. Analysis of the carbonyl index (0.03 to 1.79) underlined their state of degradation, primarily due to sun exposure during low tides. In laboratory conditions, 1 mm2 microplastics obtained from new disposable facemasks were prone to biodegradation by Penicillium brevicompactum and Zalerion maritimum inferred from microplastics mass loss (∼22 to −26 % and ∼40 to 50 %, respectively) and FTIR spectra (particularly in the hydroxyl and carbonyl groups). In addition, microfibres released from facemasks induced sublethal effects on the clam, Venerupis corrugata, mostly in their UV-aged form when compared to pristine ones, characterised by a decrease in cellular energy allocation (CEA) and an increase in aerobic energy metabolism (ETS). Concomitantly, clams exposed to 1250 items/L of UV-aged microplastics (similar to field-reported concentrations) expressed greater clearance capacity, indicating a need to compensate for the potential energy unbalance. This study provides the first baseline monitoring of facemasks in wetlands while bringing new evidence on their biodegradation and ecotoxicity, considering environmentally relevant conditions and keystone organisms in such environments. Such studies require scientific attention for rapid regulatory action against this emerging and persistent pollutant, also targeting remediation and mitigation strategies considering these items under pandemic scenarios.