Fine-tuning the fountain confined spouted bed reactor for HDPE steam cracking: Influence of bed particle size and steam flow rate Achieving high selectivity towards valuable products is crucial for the industrial development of any technology. This study investigates the use of a fountain confined conical spouted bed reactor (FCSBR) for upcycling HDPE into light olefins and BTX aromatics. In order to progress towards a highly efficient reactor for HPDE steam cracking, operation fine-tuning with this reactor has been addressed. This novel reactor technology enables a transition from conventional spouting regime to a fountain enhanced regime, as well as preventing the elutriation of fine particles. In order to progress in the understanding of the role played by process conditions in the HDPE steam cracking, a study has been conducted by analyzing the influence of bed particle size and steam flow rate on product distribution. Thus, two different particle sizes (0.35–0.50 mm and 0.63–0.80 mm) and a wide range of water flow rates (from 2.5 to 10 mL min−1) covering from conventional spouting to fountain enhanced regimes were explored. The detailed evaluation of the results revealed the combined effect of residence time, gas–solid contact and effective volume available in the fountain for steam cracking reactions. Increasing the bed particle size to 0.63–0.80 mm resulted in a higher C2-C4 olefin yield of 53.5 wt%, but decreased the BTX fraction to 9.0 wt%, suggesting that finer particles enhance overcracking and secondary aromatization reactions. Therefore, coarse particles yielded the highest C2-C4 olefin fraction, as well as the highest ethylene yield of 33.3 wt%. Regarding the effect of steam flow rate, ethylene production peaked at 31.5 wt% with a water flow rate of 7.5 mL min−1, and high yields of BTX, ranging from 14.2 to 16.8 wt%, were obtained. However, using 5 mL min−1 of water with fine particles allowed the recovery of as much as 66.7 wt% of high added value products, i.e, light olefins and BTX fraction.