Biodegradability of conventional and bio-based plastics and natural fiber composites during composting, anaerobic digestion and long-term soil incubation Plastics are a major constituent of municipal solid waste that pose a growing disposal and environmental pollution problem due to their recalcitrant nature. To reduce their environmental impacts and allow them to be transformed during organic waste recycling processes, various materials have recently been introduced to improve the biodegradability of plastics. These include conventional plastics amended with additives that are meant to enhance their biodegradability, bio-based plastics and natural fiber composites. In this study, the rate and extent of mineralization of a wide range of commercially available plastic alternative materials were determined during composting, anaerobic digestion and soil incubation. The biodegradability was assessed by measuring the amount of carbon mineralized from these materials during incubation under conditions that simulate these three environments and by examination of the materials by scanning electron micrography (SEM). The results showed that during a 660 day soil incubation, substantial mineralization was observed for polyhydroxyalkanoate plastics, starch-based plastics and for materials made from compost. However, only a polyhydroxyalkanoate-based plastic biodegraded at a rate similar to the positive control (cellulose). No significant degradation was observed for polyethylene or polypropylene plastics or the same plastics amended with commercial additives meant to confer biodegradability. During anaerobic digestion for 50 days, 20–25% of the bio-based materials but less than 2% of the additive containing plastics were converted to biogas (CH4 + CO2). After 115 days of composting, 0.6% of an additive amended polypropylene, 50% of a plastarch material and 12% of a soy wax permeated paper pulp was converted to carbon dioxide. SEM analysis showed substantial disintegration of polyhydroxyalkanoate-based plastic, some surface changes for other bio-based plastics and coconut coir materials but no evidence of degradation of polypropylene or polypropylene containing additives. Although certain bio-based plastics and natural fibers biodegraded to an appreciable extent in the three environments, only a polyhydroxyalkanoate-based resin biodegraded to significant extents during the time scale of composting and anaerobic digestion processes used for solid waste management.