Sorption of arsenic by composts and biochars derived from the organic fraction of municipal solid wastes: Kinetic, isotherm and oral bioaccessibility study The historic contamination of water and soils by arsenic (As) is an extremely alarming environmental and public health issue worldwide. This study investigated the relationship between As sorption and physicochemical properties of composts and biochars derived from the organic fraction of municipal solid wastes (OFMSW) towards the development of promising sorbents with value-added solid wastes management solutions. The sorbents were characterized and their effectiveness on the As sorption was tested. Several isothermal and kinetic sorption models were used for the prediction of sorption. Composts did not show promising sorption capacities, and in some cases, the As immobilization was practically null. In contrast, biochars achieved higher sorption performance, and the experimental data fitted well on Dubinin-Rabushkevich and Langmuir models, with higher R2 values. The maximum sorption capacities of BC700 estimated by such models were 6.495 and 170.252 mg g−1, respectively, whereas those of BC500 estimated by D-R and Langmuir models were only 0.066 and 0.070 mg g−1, respectively. In sorption kinetics, As was retained onto biochars at a faster first stage, reaching equilibrium after approximately 1 h and 2 h for initial concentrations of 10 and 100 mg L−1. The pseudo-second-order, Ritchie's second-order, Ritchie's, and Elovich models more adequately described the sorption kinetics of As onto biochars with high R2 values. Overall, the complexation and precipitation were predominant mechanisms for As sorption by OFMSW-derived biochars. Furthermore, the mathematical models indicated contributions arise from physisorption and external and internal diffusion mechanisms. Although BC700 can immobilize large As amounts, the gastric phase of the oral bioaccessibility test revealed more than 80% of the sorbed As could be released under conditions similar to a human stomach (pH~1.2). Such conclusions have given important insights about the refining of effective and eco-friendly remediation technologies for the management and rehabilitation of As-contaminated soil and water, particularly in developing countries.