Properties and applications of shape-stabilized phase change energy storage materials based on porous material support—A review Advanced phase change energy storage technology can solve the contradiction between time and space energy supply and demand and improve energy efficiency. It is considered one of the most effective strategies to utilize various renewable energy in energy saving and environmental protection. Solid-liquid phase change materials (PCMs) have become critical in developing thermal energy storage (TES) technology because of their high energy storage density, high latent heat, and excellent constant temperature performance during phase change. However, volume expansion, leakage, and low thermal conductivity during phase change are the main problems hindering the development of phase change materials. To overcome these inherent problems and improve their thermophysical properties, it has been identified as an effective way to construct composite phase change materials (ss-PCMs) with stable shapes by encapsulating PCMs with porous materials, which can effectively prevent the leakage of solid-liquid phase change and improve the heat transfer performance of ss-PCMs. This paper reviews the main research progress of porous support materials (such as metal foam, porous polymer, carbon-based three-dimensional porous materials, porous ceramic materials, etc.) as ss-PCMs supports to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages of porous materials. The effects of different porous materials on the thermophysical properties of PCMs, such as thermal conductivity, latent heat, phase transition temperature, undercooling, shape stability, thermal cycle stability, and chemical compatibility, were introduced in detail. In addition, the applications of different porous material-based composite phase change materials in various industries are summarized. Finally, the research topics and challenges of porous materials in the future development of ss-PCMs are summarized and prospected.