A comprehensive review of recent developments in hydrogen production methods using a new parameter The current study reviews recent developments in hydrogen production methods. Also, the study seeks to take a step forward by comparing the methodology, energy entering each cycle, hydrogen production rate, production cost rate, environmental impacts, and energy and exergy efficiency in recent years. Hydrogen production methods are categorized based on initial energy resources. The resources are categorized into fossil fuel and renewable groups. Among fossil fuel-based techniques, steam reforming is the most frequently used approach, with a hydrogen production rate above 80%. Renewable resources for hydrogen production methods are grouped into water and biomass. For the water group, water splitting is performed by electrolysis technology, and for the biomass group, gasification is widely used due to higher efficiency and positive environmental effects. When the hydrogen production methods were introduced, 50 recent studies on hydrogen production methods were comprehensively compared. The studies were evaluated according to their different hydrogen production methods, including liquefaction, pyrolysis, gasification, combustion, solid oxide, alkaline, and polymer electrolyte membrane, all of which are renewable source-based technologies, needless of large and costly infrastructure. However, thermochemical methods, such as steam methane, pyrolysis reforming, etc., are justifiable for evaluation due to different challenges, including production efficiency, type of raw materials, and production purification, etc. The hydrogen green index (HGI) was introduced to better compare the sustainability and environmental impacts of the recent literature. As a dimensionless parameter, HGI is the rate of hydrogen production to CO2 reduction per 1 USD. Although common comparison methods consider PEM as the best hydrogen production method, HGI suggests that SMR is the best option (HGI = 4.19).