Exploring fluidized bed technology for biocarbon production with mitigation of ash-forming elements Biocarbon is a potential alternative to fossil coal use in the industrial sector. Fluidized-bed technology, known for its exceptional thermal mixing and reactor integration capabilities, holds promise for large-scale biocarbon production. However, the successful implementation of this technology requires overcoming technical challenges such as high concentrations of potassium (K) and phosphorus (P) in forest-based biocarbon, which can limit its applicability in certain industrial processes. The objective of this study was to identify the potential effects of biomass-bed material interactions that can affect the presence of these ash-forming elements in the resulting biocarbon. Laboratory-scale fluidized bed experiments were conducted in a weakly oxidizing atmosphere (86.2 % vol N2, 10 % vol CO2, and 3.8 % O2) at various temperatures and residence times. Pine bark, which is a low-cost Ca-K-rich biomass with a minor amount of P, was used as raw biomass. The experimental results were analyzed using scanning electron microscopy-energy-dispersive scanning electron microscopy (SEM-EDS) and thermodynamic equilibrium calculations (TECs), providing insights into the ash transformation process. Resulting biocarbon had a high carbon content (75–90 wt% d.b.), with mass yields ranging from 13 to 30 wt%. The K retention in the biocarbon after 400 s of conversion was between 67 % and 44 % at a bed temperature of 550–900 °C, whereas the P retention was between 58 % and 43 %. The results suggested that additional inorganic removal mechanisms, different from K and P volatilization, are present in fluidized bed reactors compared to other commercial pyrolysis technologies. This highlights fluidized bed reactors (FBRs) as a promising alternative for producing biocarbon with lower K and P levels. The findings of this study contribute to the development of the design and operational criteria for fluidized beds used in biocarbon production. In addition, the results strongly indicate that the interaction between the ash-forming elements and bed materials begins before the raw material fractions are completely converted, and further investigation is recommended.