Gasification of mixed plastic-biomass pellets in an updraft fixed bed reactor: A simplified dynamic model In the context of materials recycling, updraft gasifiers are promising small and middle-scale reactors to obtain building blocks and/or energy from waste plastic and biomasses. To this aim, these kinds of materials can also be mixed and reduced into pellets, while the needed heat enters the process with a heated carrier gas. In order to preliminarily design a gasifier to check its feasibility with an available feedstock, currently available models are inadequate. Thermodynamic ones are useless for the purposes of sizing, while too detailed rate-based models (e.g. based on fluid-dynamic modelling) are too substrate specific, need detailed input data and are extremely time consuming. A dynamic model of a fixed-bed reactor for biomass gasification is presented here. The gasifier is loaded continuously from the top with solid pellets and fed with counter-current air flow. The model considers: i) a one-step gasification kinetics, yielding a product spectrum which matches experimental data from the literature; ii) dynamic gas and solid energy balances and iii) steady-state energy balance for the furnace. The model has been applied to describe a tubular furnace (Ø 40 cm) which gasifies 500–1000 kg day−1 of mixed wastes using air heated up to 1200 °C: on the basis of the produced chemicals, the energy consumption was estimated as ca. 2 MJ per kg of solid feedstock. This simplified approach proved robust in describing the overall yields and start-up dynamics, showing higher reliability than equilibrium models in addressing the temperature profiles, at the cost of a simplified reaction kinetic and pellet description with respect to more complex simulation models. The model validation was done by comparison between the calculations results and available pilot-plant data. An overall good fit of the data can be concluded. The solid-gas heat transfer and the bed packing are the main computational criticalities to achieve a reliable process description.