Plasma-induced aging of microplastics and its effect on mercury transport and transformation Microplastics are known to adsorb heavy metals, with aged microplastics exhibiting greater adsorption capacity. This study investigates the impact of microplastic aging on the transport and transformation of mercury (Hg), a highly toxic heavy metal. Polystyrene (PS) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) were aged using plasma treatment to simulate environmental conditions. Characterization of virgin and plasma-treated microplastics revealed aging mechanisms induced by plasma treatment. Notably, aged PS, unlike PVC, did not show a decrease in particle size but exhibited a decrease in specific surface area, likely due to chain cleavage and re-polymerization of polystyrene fragments, and thermal effects during plasma treatment. Both aged PS and PVC demonstrated increased hydrophilicity, enhanced negative charge, and a higher presence of nitrogen- and oxygen-containing functional groups. These changes were correlated with a significant increase in Hg adsorption capacity. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations further indicated that the adsorption of Hg2+ by microplastics is promoted by the presence of oxygen- and nitrogen-containing functional groups. The particularly strong influence of nitrogen-containing functional groups on Hg2+ adsorption was confirmed through both experimental and theoretical approaches. Adsorption kinetics and isothermal experiments, along with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analyses, were conducted to elucidate the Hg adsorption mechanism of on microplastics before and after aging. The mechanisms involved include pore filling, van der Waals’ forces, electrostatic interactions, hydrophobic interactions, and functional group complexation. The intraparticle diffusion model indicated that adsorption is controlled by multiple steps. Importantly, the surface functional groups of aged microplastics can reduce Hg2+ to Hg+ and adsorb it, suggesting a more complex adsorption process for Hg on aged microplastics. This study provides a scientific basis for understanding microplastic aging and the Hg adsorption mechanism on microplastics, highlighting the complex dynamics of combined microplastic and heavy metal contamination.