Raman imaging spectroscopic solutions for microplastics advanced analysis: Insights from Choqueyapu river basin (La Paz, Bolivia) Microplastics (MPs) are causing global concern due to their role as vectors of environmental contaminants. Evaluating their impact on environmental compartments, particularly in sediment and freshwaters, remains challenging due to difficulties in gathering chemical and morphological data. In fact, the analytical process can vary depending on the matrix considered, the non-homogeneous characteristics of MPs, and the targeted size range. Sample treatment is crucial for sediments and waters, requiring a balance between matrix removal and preservation of the MPs. Consequently, MPs often remain embedded in significant amounts of the original matrices, compromising their characterisation. In this regard, Raman spectroscopy shows promise for their comprehensive molecular analysis. However, overcoming the drawbacks associated with fluorescence from organic matter, feldspar, or clays requires considerable effort. Effective signal acquisition necessitates fine-tuning parameters, including background reduction and signal-to-noise ratio amplification. Moreover, data handling involved in chemical scanning large surfaces at high resolution is a challenging task. To overcome these drawbacks, chemometrics have demonstrated high efficacy in processing and extracting targeted information. The application of chemometrics could be relevant in environmental studies due to the large number of samples, the complexity of signal acquisition, and the dataset volumes managed. As such, this study proposes spectroscopic analytical solutions, augmented by chemical imaging and algorithmic processing, for advanced MPs analysis. A spectroscopic working approach was devised and tested through a real case study conducted in the Choqueyapu River basin (La Paz, Bolivia). This methodology allowed the morphological, molecular and quantitative identification of over 44 particles/L and 91 MPs particles/kg, in water and sediment, respectively, consisting of PE, PET, PP, PS and PMMA. MP abundance varied significantly across studied areas, spanning 2 to 4 orders of magnitude. PET fibres predominated in freshwaters, while Lipari Sector sediments were hotspots for PE and PS fragments.