Title: Characterization, performance assessment, techno-economic potential, and process optimization of scrap tire pyrolysis in Bangladesh
Abstract: The objective of this study was to assess the effects of tire pyrolytic oil (TPO) blends on diesel engine performance, evaluate the techno-economic viability, and optimize the process variables using the response surface methodology (RSM) in order to increase the maximum product yield. To test engine performance and exhaust emission characteristics, the derived pyrolytic oil was employed in a four-stroke diesel engine with different diesel fuel blend ratios. It has been found that engine performance using a pyrolytic oil blend is much closer to the diesel fuel engine performance. This paper has briefly explored the economics of TPO production and the reliability improvements of the pyrolysis processes to make them viable for commercial applications. The techno-economic feasibility analysis has been conducted on a 10 tons'/day capacity pyrolytic plant. It has been found that the total cost and net revenue generation from one ton of scrap tires are $225.25 and $410.2, respectively. Additionally, the 8-year project's payback period is only 2.96 years, while the internal rate of return (IRR) was found to be 27.81%. The reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions was estimated at 1,658.62 tons per year. The RSM was used to optimize the process parameters for maximizing product yield. At the ideal conditions of 464.11 °C operating temperature, 59.53 min of running time, and 1.63 cm particle size, the projected maximum pyrolytic oil yield of 87.31 wt% and char yield of 7.63 wt % was reached. The reliability and applicability of the process were ensured through the developed regression model for pyrolytic oil and char with a high F-value and low P-value. The predicted results were validated, and it was found that the experimental data varied only by 1.21% from the predicted values. Therefore, this study provides investors with scientific guidance for pyrolysis-based energy generation projects in Bangladesh that are financially viable.