Co-pyrolysis of plastic waste and eucalyptus waste wood for fuel pellets production: A study of fuel, mechanical, and combustion characteristics under varying binder proportion The study explores the effect of varying molasses proportions as a binder on the characteristics of densified char obtained through the slow co-pyrolysis of plastic waste and Eucalyptus wood waste (Waste low-density polyethylene – Eucalyptus wood (WLDPE–EW) and Waste Polystyrene – Eucalyptus wood (WPS–EW)). Pyrolysis was conducted at 500 °C with a residence time of 120 min, employing plastic to wood waste ratios of 1:2 and 1:3 (w/w). The focus was on how varying the proportion of molasses (10–30 %), influences the physical and combustion properties of the resulting biofuel pellets. Our findings reveal that the calorific value of the pellets decreased from 28.94 to 27.44 MJ/Kg as the molasses content increased. However, this decrease in calorific value was compensated by an increase in pellet mass density, which led to a higher energy density overall. This phenomenon was attributed to the formation of solid bridges between particles, facilitated by molasses, effectively decreasing particle spacing. The structural integrity of the pellets, as measured by the impact resistance index, improved significantly (43–47 %) with the addition of molasses. However, a significant change in the combustion characteristics depicted by lower ignition and burnout temperatures were observed due to decrease in fixed carbon value and increase in volatile matter content, as the proportion of molasses increased. Despite these changes, the pellets demonstrated a stable combustion profile, suggesting that molasses are an effective binder for producing biofuel pellets through the densification of char derived from the co-pyrolysis of plastic and Eucalyptus wood waste. The optimized molasses concentration analyzed through multifactor regression analysis was 16.96 % with 28 % WLDPE proportion to produce WLDPE–EW char pellets. This study highlights the potential of using molasses as a sustainable binder to enhance the mechanical and combustion properties of biofuel pellets, offering a viable pathway for the valorization of waste materials.