Recent progress in metal-organic frameworks-based hydrogels and aerogels and their applications In recent years, metal-organic frameworks (MOFs) have attracted incredible chemical and material research interests because of their prominent properties and charming structures. The reliable production of a wide variety of MOFs materials and MOF derivatives, such as MOF-metal nanoparticles composites and MOFs-polymers hybrids, offers many possibilities to develop MOF-based applied materials. Although MOFs have many unique features, including abundant pore structures and multiple functional ligands, their applied performance is limited by intrinsic fragility and powdered crystalline state, as well as unsatisfied stability and processability. By this, MOF-based hydrogels and aerogels have achieved unparalleled results, outperforming ungelated MOFs materials in many aspects. This review presents current developments of MOF-based hydrogels and aerogels with emphasis on the specific categories and the synergistic effects of MOF-derived aerogels between MOFs and additional materials. Particular emphasis is placed on discussing the advantages of MOF-based hydrogels and aerogels in applications such as sensors, batteries, supercapacitors, adsorbents, catalysts etc. MOF-based hydrogels and aerogels can provide valuable guidance for the investigation of MOFs towards practical applications with processability, stability, and easy handling. Specifically, we will summary recent progress of pure MOF hydrogels, MOF@biology derived organic macromolecules hydrogels, MOF@biocompatible hydrogels, MOF@ graphene hydrogels, pure MOF aerogels, MOF@silica aerogel composites, MOF@ graphene aerogel composites, MOF@cellulose aerogel composites, and aerogel composites containing MOFs-derived materials. In addition, their applications are also discussed. We hope that this review will be helpful for those who want quick access to valuable references about MOF-based hydrogels and aerogels and their applications.