Microplastics influencing aquatic environment and human health: A review of source, determination, distribution, removal, degradation, management strategy and future perspective Microplastics (MPs) are produced from various primary and secondary sources and pose multifaceted environmental problems. They are of non-biodegradable nature and may stay in aquatic environments for a long time period. The present review has covered novel aspects pertaining to MPs that were not covered in earlier studies. It has been observed that several methods are being employed for samples collection, extraction and identification of MPs and polymer types using various equipment, chemicals and instrumental techniques. Aquatic species mistakenly ingest MPs, considering them prey and through food-chain, and then suffer from various metabolic disorders. The consumption of seafood and fish may consequently cause health implications in humans. Certain plasticizers are added during manufacturing to provide colour, durability, flexibility, and strength to plastics, but they leach out during usage, storage, and transport, as well as after entering the bodies of aquatic species and human beings. The leached chemicals (bisphenol-A, triclosan, phthalates, etc.) act as endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs), which effect on homeostasis; thereby causing neurotoxicity, cytotoxicity, reproductive problems, adverse behaviour and autism. Negative influence of MPs on carbon sequestration potential of water bodies is also observed, however more studies are required to understand it with a detail mechanism under natural conditions. The wastewater treatment plants are found to remove a large amount of MPs, but in turn, also act as significant sources of their release in sludge and effluents. Further, it is covered that how advanced oxidation processes, thermal- and photo-oxidation, fungi, algae and microbes degrade the plastics and increase their numbers in the surrounding environment. The management strategy comprising recovery of energy and other valuable by-products from plastic wastes, recycling and regulatory framework; are also described in detail. The future perspectives can be of paramount importance to control MPs generation and their abundance in the aquatic and other types of environments. The studies in future need to focus on advanced filtration techniques, advanced oxidation processes, energy recovery from plastic wastes and influences of MPs on carbon sequestration in aquatic environment and human health.