The potential of biochar-photocatalytic nanocomposites for removal of organic micropollutants from wastewater Biochar (BC)-photocatalyst nanocomposites have emerged as appealing water and wastewater treatment technology. Such nanocomposite materials benefit from the synergistic effect of adsorption and photocatalysis to attain improved removal of pollutants from water and wastewater. Under this review, three BC-based nanocomposite photocatalysts such as BC-TiO2, BC-ZnO, and BC-spinel ferrites were considered. These nanocomposites acquire intrinsic properties to improve the practical limitations of the pristine BC and photocatalysts. The BC-based nanocomposites attained high photocatalytic activity, mechanical hardness, thermal stability, chemically non-reactive, magnetically permeable, reduced energy band gaps, improved reusability, and simplified recovery. Moreover, BC-based photocatalytic nanocomposites showed reduced recombination rates of the electron-hole pairs which are desirable for photocatalytic applications. However, the surface areas of the composites are usually smaller than that of the BC but higher than those of the pristine photocatalysts. Practically, the performances of the nanocomposites are much superior to those of the corresponding pristine components. This hybrid treatment technology is an emerging field and its industrial application is still at an early stage of the investigation. Therefore, exploring the full potential and practical applications of this technology is highly encouraging. Hence, this review focused on the critical evaluation of the most recent research on the synthesis, characterization, and photocatalytic treatment efficiency of the BC photocatalyst nanocomposites towards emerging pollutants in the aqueous medium. Moreover, the influence of various sources of BC feedstocks and their limitations on adsorption and photodegradation activities are discussed in detail. Finally, concluding remarks and future research directions are given to assist and shape the exploration of BC-based nanocomposite photocatalysts in water treatment.