Production of functionalized clay-CNC based biopolymeric nanocomposite from agro-waste biomass for bulky industrial wastewater treatment via continuous column adsorption study with mathematical modeling: A critical review Due to extensive industrialization, fluctuating technologies, and an overgrowing population a colossal amount of hazardous effluent is generated every moment and discharged directly into the environment. This crude wastewater can contaminate the environment and food cycle; causing serious damage not only to the ecosystem but also to public health. Therefore, it is critical to treat this wastewater by improving an ecological and economical technology before discharging/reusing. However, researchers are exasperating to improve an efficient and effective technology for the refinement of the bulky industrial wastewater. Here, some state-of-the-art production techniques of the FC-CNC bionanosorbents have been proposed for the effective purification of bulky effluent via a continuous adsorption system. This technology is superior to other methods due to its lower cost, higher efficiency, innovative and beneficial nature, and high selectivity. Instead, the precursors (cellulose and clay) are more available, nontoxic, ecofriendly, biodegradable, thermally and mechanically stable, and have shown high surface area, porous structure, possessed substantial active binding sites that could have been busting their adsorption performances. Still there are several complications concerning the effective processing/modification of the main precursors, production techniques, mechanism, and mode of application while purifying the crude wastewater. Henceforth, this review paper would be devoted by concentrating the modification process, advance production methods, synergistic mechanism to support the mono and/or multilayer physisorption, chemisorption, diffusion/deep penetration, and mode of application addressing the bulky wastewater treatment. By discovering the gaps and suggesting impending instructions, this study aims to expand the fabrication, categorization, and application of the FC-CNC bionanoadsorbents.