Understanding the conversion mechanisms in supercritical water conditions of PET as a model compound of plastic wastes In this work, polyethylene terephthalate (PET) was used as a model compound for understanding the conversion mechanism of plastic wastes through supercritical water gasification (SCWG) for producing: i) a gas rich in methane/hydrogen; and ii) for obtaining valuable molecules to be recycled in chemical processes (e.g., benzoic and acetic acids).The experiments were conducted at two different temperatures (above the critical point of water): 450 °C and 600 °C, in order to study the influence of this parameter on the conversion yield. The holding time in the reactor was set at 30 min for all trials. The experimental data were compared to the thermodynamic equilibrium calculations and the results showed that increasing the temperature from 450 °C to 600 °C, the total gas yield is highly improved (from 8.6 mol gas/kg of dried feedstock to 22 mol gas/kg of dried feedstock). The experiments with Raney-nickel catalyst indicated a significant improvement of the carbon conversion yield, which led to a higher gas production from mild to higher temperatures. The maximum total gas yield obtained with this catalyst was 63.4 mol gas/kg of dried feedstock at 600 °C, which is almost 3 times higher than that obtained at the same operating conditions without catalyst. The HHV of the obtained gas at 600 °C with the catalyst was 64.7 MJ/kg gas and 57.9 MJ/kg gas at 450 °C. Additionally at mild operating temperatures (450 °C), the obtained performance with the catalyst was even higher than that obtained at 600 °C without catalyst (50 mol gas/kg dried feedstock and 22 mol gas/kg dried feedstock, respectively), which is the major contribution of this work. At mild temperatures (450 °C) the methane production is highly favored, meanwhile at 600 °C the hydrogen production is enhanced. The methane yield obtained at 450 °C was 21.3 mol CH4/kg dried feedstock and the hydrogen yield obtained at 600 °C was 20.6 mol H2/kg dried feedstock. In the aqueous phases obtained from the experiments performed without catalyst at 450 °C, it was found valuable intermediate species such as benzoic and acetic acids (at a concentration of 4462 mg/L and 946 mg/L, respectively). This study represents a sustainable approach for valorizing plastic wastes by catalytic SCWG process.