Simultaneous removal of multiple PFAS from contaminated groundwater around a fluorochemical facility by the periodically reversing electrocoagulation technique Increasing attentions have been paid on widespread contaminations of perfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS). Particularly, simultaneous occurrence of multiple PFAS in the aquatic environments globally has been recognized as a crucial emerging issue. The present study aimed to perform simultaneous removal of multiple PFAS contaminations from groundwater around a fluorochemical facility based upon the technique of periodically reversing electrocoagulation (PREC). Accordingly, the experiments were implemented on the best conditions, actual application, and removal mechanism in the process of PREC with Al–Zn electrodes. Consequently, 1 mg/L synthetic solution of ten PFAS could be eliminated ideally during the initial 10 min, under the optimal conditions involving voltage at 12 V, pH at 7.0, and electrolyte with NaCl. The maximum removal rates of perfluorobutanoic acid (PFBA), perfluorobutane sulfonate (PFBS), perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) were 90.9%, 91.0%, 99.7%, and 100%, respectively. The PREC performed a significant improvement for the wide scope of PFAS removal with the levels ranging from 10 μg/L to 100 mg/L. In addition, the optimized PREC technique was further applied to remove various PFAS contaminations from the natural groundwater samples underneath the fluorochemical facility, subsequently generating the removal efficiencies in the range between 31.3% and 99.9%, showing the observable advantages compared with other removal techniques for the actual application. Finally, the mechanism of PFAS removal was mainly related to enmeshment and synergistic bridging adsorption, together with oxidation degradation that determined by potential formation of short-chain PFAS in the PREC process. As a result, the PREC technique would be a promising technique for the efficient removal of multiple PFAS contaminations simultaneously from natural water bodies.