Title: Co-pyrolysis of cellulose and polyethylene terephthalate from waste textiles for fuel gas production by synergistic effect
Abstract: Difficulty in separating natural and synthetic fibers in blended textiles challenges the resourcing of waste textiles. Pyrolysis is an essential process for energy conversion of waste, but the mechanism of co-pyrolysis from blended textiles to syngas production is not clear. For this, the impact of synergistic effects on product distribution in the co-pyrolysis of cellulose (CE) and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) from waste textiles was investigated. The composition and distribution of the gaseous products with different ratios of CE/PET blends were focused on, and the optimized blending ratios were determined in association with thermogravimetric analyses. Then, the contribution of catalytic co-pyrolysis to the fuel gas (a summary of H2, CH4, and CO) production was tested. Bio-calcium-based MgO-CaO from oyster shells was used as a catalyst for the co-pyrolysis of CE/PET blends. The enhancement of fuel gas production by synergistic effect during the co-pyrolysis of cellulose and polyethylene terephthalate was revealed. The CE/PET blends with a mass ratio of 3.5:6.5 exhibited the highest fuel gas yield due to the strongest synergistic effect during the co-pyrolysis process. The distribution of small molecular gases has been enhanced due to the impact of synergistic effects, leading to a notable increase in CO yield. Data analysis reveals that the CE/PET blend at the specified ratio yielded a fuel gas output of 13.85 mmol/g with a measured higher heating value (HHV) of 276.87 kJ/mol at a temperature of 850 °C, corresponding to a fuel gas distribution of 67.43 %. Furthermore, in the context of catalytic co-pyrolysis, the fuel gas yield was significantly enhanced to 19.66 mmol/g, accompanied by an improved HHV of 304.68 kJ/mol and a fuel gas distribution of 78.64 %. This work offers a novel perspective on the high-value utilization of fibers with different compositions from blended waste textiles via co-pyrolysis.