Forecast sustainable and renewable hydrogen production via circular bio-economy of agro waste Biorenewable hydrogen is requisite to replace non-renewable hydrogen. Decarbonization is assured. Hydrogen demand is severely rising due to mitigating climate change and reducing fossil fuel dependency. Green Hydrogen from agro waste proposition makes bio-circular economy upcycling. The main objective of this study is to reinforce the hope of renewable, sustainable H2 production from agro-waste. Initially, this paper shows the demand for green hydrogen, the sustainable availability of agro waste, and their capability to produce H2. Insights into the gasification of agro waste about cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin with conventional gasification. The effect of catalyst and supercritical gasification and their challenges is discussed. Most uniquely, other reviews highlight various aspirations behind agro-waste gasification to attain a strong business model, such as co-production, co-gasification, and CO2 reforming with H2 yield. This review exhibits some main insight into various aspects of agro-waste gasification. H2 from agrowaste gasification has high energy content (122 kJ/g) and high energy conversion efficiency in the range of 55–58 %, in addition to gaining the economic penalties of 2.2–2.5 net points for decarbonization. Agro waste is composed of lignocellulosic material that is relatively richer in hydrogen than fossil fuel resources. In SCWG, water is one of the natural solvents, which means feedstock effectively dissolves with water solvents. Intermittent density, low viscosity, and surface tension are nearly zero values due to SCW having no specific phase boundary, which enhances the gasification and substantially reduces tar formation during SCWG. Catalyst utilization enhances H2 production. The present study comprehensively exhibits the role of catalyst and their supporter and promoter. Ni-based catalysts are mostly suggested for H2 production but fall into reusability issues. The main reason behind this is that Ni is inefficient in removing HCl, H2S, and total trace elements during gasification. Recently, low-cost and waste-to-wealth transformation aspects of biochar-based catalysts have gained attention. Renewable-assisted gasification significantly improves the energy and exergy of the system and suppresses the important concern of energy consumption during gasification. Renewable assisted and various aspiration incorporation into gasification is solidly recommended for future implementation based on energy, economic, and environmental benefits from them. Plastic and biomass are richer in hydrocarbon and oxygen, respectively; this synergistic effect has the potential to enhance the H2 yield. From this study, PP plastic is mostly preferred for co-gasification with biomass. Compared to 100 wt% of biomass, the introduction of plastic slightly increased the coke formation, but the H2 yield was improved. When the plastic mixture of 10 wt% increases coke deposition, however, significant coke deposition is not reported when 20 wt% of plastic concentration is not reported. Carbon capture via CO2 inert gas supply enhances the H2 yield, provides a route to carbon trade, and substantially contributes to GHG pollution mitigation. Agro-waste gasification is produced by a product that has the potential to be used in a wide range of applications due to its unique properties, such as large specific surface area, porosity, functional groups, high reliability, and minimum cost. Hopefully, this review will be an optic to the most appropriate green hydrogen production path for sustainable clean energy production and effective agro-waste management.