An extensive review on bibliometric analysis of carbon nanostructure reinforced composites The rapid evolution of the mechanical industry necessitates reliable and innovative materials. Metal matrix composites (MMCs) have emerged as a leading contender for performing vital roles in this field. Carbon nanostructures, such as graphene and carbon nanotubes (CNTs), are particularly well-suited as reinforcement materials in MMCs. It has been found by recent experimental studies that incorporating CNTs and graphene as reinforcements into metal matrix composites, such as aluminum, magnesium, titanium, nickel, and copper matrices, can significantly enhance the mechanical, thermal, and tribological properties of these materials. This is achieved through various mechanisms, including the restriction of grain growth, hindrance of dislocations, load transfer at interfaces, and mitigation of thermal expansion mismatch. The precise reinforcement and optimization of fabrication techniques have opened up new avenues for achieving uniform nanostructure dispersion and strong interfacial bonding, leading to substantial improvements in quantitative properties. Such advancements in material science hold great promise for the development of high-performance materials with enhanced properties that are vital for various applications, including aerospace, automotive, biomedical, and beyond. The addition of low-carbon nanostructures to polymer matrix, ceramic, and biocomposite systems has also been observed to elicit noteworthy multifunctional improvements. Reinforcing collagen with CNT fibers leads to better mechanical and electrical performance compared to using collagen alone. This critical review provides an insightful and data-driven analysis of the current state of carbon nanostructure (CNTs/graphene)-reinforced metal matrix and biocomposites based on an extensive literature evaluation. The review includes an in-depth examination of the optimized synthesis and processing techniques for CNTs and graphene MMCs, highlighting the impact of reinforcement on their mechanical, thermal conductivity, electrical conductivity, and functional properties. Continued work refining fabrication methods fully leverages their potent multi-functional enhancement capabilities.