Quantitative analysis of microplastics in beach sand via low-temperature solvent extraction and thermal degradation: Effects of particle size and sample depth Quantifying trace levels of microplastics in complex environmental media remains a challenge. In this study, an approach combining field collection of samples from different depths, sample size fractionation, and plastic quantification via pyrolysis-gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (Py-GC–MS) was employed to identify and quantify microplastics at two public beaches along the northeast coast of the U.S. (Salisbury beach, MA and Hampton beach, NH). A simple sampling tool was used to collect beach sand from depth intervals of 0–5 cm and 5–10 cm, respectively. The samples were sieved to give three size fractions: coarse (>1.2 mm), intermediate (100 μ m–1.2 mm), and fine (1.2 μ m–100 μ m) particles. Following density separation and wet peroxide oxidation, a low-temperature solvent extraction protocol involving 2-chlorophenol was used to extract polyester (PET), polystyrene (PS), polyamide (PA), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The extract was analyzed using Py-GC–MS for the respective polymers, while the solid residue was pyrolyzed separately for polyethylene (PE) and polypropylene (PP). The one-step solvent extraction method significantly simplified the sample matrix and improved the sensitivity of analysis. Among the samples, PET was detected in greater quantities in the fine fraction than in the intermediate size fraction, and PET fine particles were located predominantly in the surface sand. Similar to PET, PS was detected at higher mass concentrations in the fine particles in most samples. These results underscore the importance of beach environment for plastic fragmentation, where a combination of factors including UV irradiation, mechanical abrasion, and water exposure promote plastic breakdown. Surface accumulation of fine plastic particles may also be attributed to transport of microplastics through wind and tides. The proposed sample treatment and analysis methods may allow sensitive and quantitative measurements of size or depth-related distribution patterns of microplastics in complex environmental media.