Thermographic phosphors for thermometry: A survey of combustion applications Temperature is a fundamental thermodynamic parameter used to describe physical, chemical and biological processes. In combustion as in many other applications, knowledge about temperature plays a substantial role in helping to maintain an efficient and clean environment. Being able to measure temperature accurately in combustion and in fire-related applications is important for giving a better understanding of heat transfer phenomena and improving existing models. In the present review paper a method based on the spectroscopy of inorganic luminescent materials is described and exemplified in experiments related to combustion. The method involves the use of thermographic phosphors which enable remote temperature diagnostics to be performed with a high degree of sensitivity and accuracy. The technique is superior to those based on thermocouples and pyrometry, particularly in the vicinity of flames and when the measured surface is subjected to random movements. Several phosphor materials suitable for temperature probing are described. The application of thermographic phosphors to temperature measurements in one-point and in two-dimensions in flame spread scenarios, and in pyrolysis experiments involving different construction materials and polymers are described. Many thermographic phosphors have the property of being insensitive to variations in pressure up to 1GPa. This property extends the use and development of thermographic thermometry to other domains, such as internal combustion engines. The temperature has been measured in a point and in two-dimensions inside the combustion chamber. The complex procedures required to implement the use of thermocouples on moving objects inside an engine make thermocouples an expensive choice. It also limits the possibilities of altering the measurement locations and thereby also complicating the investigation of different engine geometries and components. Thermographic phosphors have also been employed in gas turbine applications. Temperature probing in the afterburner of a full-size aircraft engine is described with the aim to study the effects of various engine loads on the wall temperature. Furthermore, the application of thermographic phosphors to study the temperature of droplets in relation to sprays is described. In spray dynamics, temperature is a crucial parameter for gaining an understanding of atomisation, evaporation and heat convection from the surrounding gases. Finally the application of thermographic phosphors for gas temperature measurement by seeding the particles into a gas flow is described together with the challenges associated with seeding the particles for in-situ flame measurements.