Title: Thermodynamic investigation and 4Es analysis of a VCR diesel engine using emulsified diesel with catalytic co-pyrolysis fuel derived from waste LDPE and Pongamia pinnata seeds
Abstract: Global challenges for massive plastic waste disposal and regular decrement of conventional resources, converting plastic and biomass seeds waste into transportation-grade fuels through co-pyrolysis offer a better option for providing a promising solution. This investigation signifies a thermodynamic power cycle model, and 4Es (Energy, Exergy, Environmental, Economic) analysis of a direct injection unmodified diesel engine powered with various blends of test fuels derived from thermo-catalytic co-pyrolysis of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) wastes and Pongamia pinnata seeds at 500 °C with calcium oxide as catalyst, mixed with diesel. The fuel mixtures of pure diesel and pyrolytic test fuels are utilized for diesel engine testing with varying compression ratio. The synergistic effects of major parameters such as full engine load, varying compression ratios (16:1, 17:1, 18:1, and 19:1), and fuel blends (10, 20, 30, and 40 %) are considered for engine run. The Brake thermal energy was found to increase for the 20 % blend at 6.6 % (40 % load) in comparison to pure diesel. Also, the Brake specific fuel consumption was the least for the same blend, 0.31 kg/kWh at 18:1 CR. The smoke was also found to have lowered by 22 % for the 20 % blend in comparison to pure diesel. At a compression ratio of 18:1, the NOx formation also decreased by approximately 1.4 % in comparison to the pure diesel for almost all considered fuel blends. The fuel efficiency was observed to increase for the 20 % blend compared to pure diesel by 20 %. The cost and exergy destruction analysis also confirmed the D80PB20 to have the least and maximum values respectively for both parameters. The energy, exergy, emission, and economic (4Es) analysis confirmed the suitability of blended fuels for achieving improved engine performance and emissions. In addition, the economic and fuel sustainability analysis foster the techno-economic feasibility of the test fuels as compared to conventional diesel fuel.