Achieving affordable and clean energy through conversion of waste plastic to liquid fuel Millions of tons of waste plastic are generated worldwide every year. These waste plastics are nonbiodegradable and are inappropriately disposed thereby constituting sanitary and environmental nuisance to society. The discarded plastics are dumped into drainages and water bodies where they pollute the environment, contaminate aquatic habitats, and harm aquatic animals. Researchers have devised techniques for converting waste plastic to biofuels to replace the dangerous fossil-based fuels and meet the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) of affordable and clean energy for all targets. This study reviews the strategies for achieving affordable and clean energy through the conversion of waste plastic to biofuels and other value-added products. The classes of plastics and their applications, waste plastic conversion routes and their products, and conversion of waste plastic to bio-oil, biohydrogen, and other renewable fuels are examined. The application of waste plastic in the building and construction industries, production of carbon nanotubes, synthesis of graphene nanosheets as novel biocatalyst, and wastewater treatment are also discussed with a view to exposing other avenues for the utilization of waste plastic. The outcome of this intervention will enrich scholarship by providing updated information on the strategies for converting waste plastic to biofuels and other value-added products. Biofuel researchers, waste managers, environmental enthusiasts, and other stakeholders will be equipped with adequate knowledge on opportunities available in the waste plastic conversion and how to turn the menace of waste plastic into beneficial products. Implementable legislations and policies to encourage investments into waste conversion for cleaner environment, employment generation, and biodiversity. More targeted interdisciplinary studies are required to evolve innovative pathways for sustainable conversion and utilization of waste plastic. The use of appropriate state-of-the-art technologies such as machine learning, artificial intelligence, etc. as well as statistical modeling, and optimization tools are needed to improve the conversion efficiency, optimize process parameters, and guarantee the sustainable production of quality products from waste plastic towards meeting SDG 7.