Biodegradable mulch enhances cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) yield via microplastic reduction and P cycling microbes modulation Context Conventional mulch film (CMP) has been widely used to improve the productivity of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.). However, due to CMP non-degradable characteristics, which damages the soil structure, harms the microbial community, and finally threatens the health of the entire soil ecosystem. Therefore, the demand for biodegradable mulch film (BMP) to replace CMP is increasing. Objective The effects of long-term use of BMP on soil phosphorus (P) and functional genes of P-cycle microorganisms remain unclear. We compared the long-term effects of CMP and BMP on microplastic residues and the structural diversity of P-cycling microorganisms in cotton fields. Methods Under both films, microplastics (MPs) types were polystyrene, polyethylene, polypropylene, and polyvinyl chloride. Compared with CMP, BMP significantly reduced polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride contents. Results Under BMP, soil total P, inorganic (NaHCO3-Pi and D.HCl-Pi) and organic (NaHCO3-Po, NaOH-Po, and C.HCl-Po) P fractions, microbial biomass P, and labile, moderately labile, and stable P decreased significantly. However, cotton P uptake increased by 47 % and seed cotton yield by 4 % under BMP. Compared with CMP, BMP significantly increased alpha diversity of soil P-cycling microorganisms, while increasing abundance of Actinobacteria, Thaumarchaeota, Candidatus_Rokubacteria, Nocardioides, and Mesorhizobium in various P-cycling pathways and decreasing abundance of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidota, Sphingomonas, and Lysobacter. In addition, BMP downregulated the expression of key functional genes in organic P mineralization, regulatory, and inorganic P solubilization pathways. Partial least squares path model analysis indicated that MPs residues changed most P-cycling pathways. Correlation analysis indicated NaHCO3-Pi, NaOH-Pi, and NaOH-Po were the key factors driving the expression of genes and enzymes of P-cycling microorganisms. Conclusions The BMP significantly reduced MPs residues and thereby altered the structure and expression of functional genes and enzymes of P-cycling microbial communities to ultimately increase cotton yield. Implications Our study show that biodegradable mulch alleviates MPs pollution and ultimately enhances crop productivity by promoting the function of the soil P-cycle.