Pyrolysis of biocollagenic wastes of vegetable tanning. Optimization and kinetic study Three solid wastes generated from the vegetable tanning of bovine skin in the Leather Industry (shavings, trimmings and buffing dust) were mixed together in the same proportions in which they were produced and the mixture was then used as a pyrolysis precursor for this research study. The optimal pyrolysis conditions for obtaining energy from the generated fractions (char, tar and gas fraction), and the preparation of activated carbons from the carbonaceous material (char), were established. The final conditions were chosen from two different points of view, the thermogravimetric results (TG/DTG) obtained at different heating rates (2–20°C/min) and an optimization of the pyrolysis parameters by means of experiments carried out in a conventional furnace. The pyrolysis conditions finally selected were: heating rate (5°C/min), final temperature (750°C), and time at final temperature (60min) and inert gas flow (N2 150ml/min). The carbonaceous material (char) obtained exhibits good properties as a solid fuel due to its high calorific value and relatively low ash content. It also shows suitable characteristics as a precursor for the preparation of activated carbons. The condensable fraction has a predominantly phenolic nature and contains significant amounts of nitrogen compounds (nitriles, diketopiperazines, etc.), alkanes, alkenes, acids and esters, derived from the decomposition of tannins and collagen, with possible industrial applications in the preparation of chemical products. The gaseous phase is rich in carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide, and also contains a certain amount of methane and hydrogen. The syngas content increases with the pyrolysis temperature. A kinetic study of the pyrolysis was carried out using a model of independent reactions. The variation in the heating rate produced a slight shift to higher temperatures of the decomposition peaks, although this did not significantly affect either the kinetic parameters of the degradation processes or the percentage weight losses.