Comprehensive review on biomass chemical looping combustion: Feedstock type, operating conditions, reactor design, technological advancement, mechanistic insights, and economics Chemical-looping combustion has appeared as an encouraging technology to generate electricity with intrinsic CO2 capture. Utilizing biomass material in the CLC can benefit sustainable energy development and negative carbon emissions. Biomass CLC often includes diverse feedstocks, operating conditions, and multiple reactor designs, which can affect the combustion efficiency and performance of the CLC system. This review aims to critically discuss biomass CLC with the combustion of different feedstocks in the fuel reactor (FR), oxygen carriers (OCs) performance, reactor design, operating conditions, process economics, and environmental impact. The biomass CLC was also compared with conventional combustion technique. The biomass feedstocks mostly produced syngas along with 100 % CO2 capture in the CLC process. However, the reactivity and stability of OCs and operational difficulties need to be addressed for diverse biomass feed. The three reactor configurations including air reactor (AR), FR, and steam reactor remained attractive among twin reactor (AR and FR) and fluidized bed systems because of their enhanced combustion efficiency and power output. The FR temperature and pressure between 850 – 950 °C and 0.5 – 2.4 MPa, respectively, can result in enhanced carbon conversion (84.7 %), CO2 recovery (97.2 %), combustion efficiency (95.5 %), and 50 kWth power output. The Ni-based OCs indicated stability (i.e., no agglomeration and carbon deposits) and morphology beyond 900 °C with 99 % combustion efficiency, while Fe-based OC showed high-quality hydrogen in syngas at 950 °C. Further, the molecular simulations revealed changes in the crystal structures of OCs due to the reduction and oxidation steps of the CLC. For instance, the lattice oxygen of CuO OCs was utilized to activate biomass C – H bond and transferred to char to generate CO2. Moreover, technological advancement in biomass CLC covered OCs development, multi-fuel burning compatibility, and novel reactors. The economics of biomass CLC relied on integrating it with hydrogen production, using cheap feedstock, employing natural OCs, specialized reactor design, equipment depreciation, and environmentally friendly process.