Physicochemical assessment of waxy products directly recovered from plastic waste pyrolysis: Review and synthesis of characterization techniques This work aims to assess the identity of waxy products from plastic waste pyrolysis through a systematic review of papers calling wax a product directly yielded from pyrolysis. Also, a comprehensive synthesis of the most practiced characterization techniques for wax materials is carried out. This review was guided by formulating and answering essential research questions such as how does wax not have the minimum required properties to form an identity? By compiling thirty-seven (37) articles by bibliometric analysis constrained by the condition of at least one characterization technique used to characterize wax, a t-test was used to compare the physicochemical properties of pyrolysis and commercial waxes statistically. The means were statistically different ( p -value < 0.05) for n-paraffins, M ¯ w , PD, Δ H m , and density, and not statistically different for M ¯ n , DTG maximum, and elemental analysis, H/C and O/C ratio. These differences suggest that the o term wax must be used only for materials recovered from polyolefin pyrolysis matching the required characteristics of commercial waxes; otherwise, the most suitable term is the waxy matter or waxy product. The assessment outcomes revealed that there is no protocol for selecting a specific combo of characterization techniques as the minimum necessary to establish the quality of waxes recovered from pyrolysis. The synthesis of the properties of polyolefin waxy from waste revealed a wax containing high n-paraffins and olefins, summing 85%. The broad average distribution of weights is inferred by polydispersity greater than 1.5. The melting temperature and density are 79.86 ∘ C ± 13.9 and 0.8528 g / c m 3 ± 0.04938, respectively, and the kinematic viscosity values 2.2 to 1000 cst in the temperature range of 25 to 100 ∘ C. Although relatively low, the presence of oxygenated compounds indicates a valuable characteristic for driving the use of waste polyolefin waxy for powder coating application. From the characterization’s gaps pointed out throughout the review and by knowing the typical commercial characteristics required, we suggest that the basic properties to be determined as a minimum requirement to confer commercial values for the wax from polyolefins were the number of double bonds, melting temperature, crystallinity, density, viscosity, and hardness.