Catalytic optimization in hydrogen production from co-gasification of canola meal and N95 filter mask through supercritical water: Products analysis and reaction pathway This study presents a novel approach for hydrogen production via catalytic supercritical water gasification (SCWG) of canola meal and N95 mask waste, two underexplored and compositionally distinct feedstocks. Their selection was guided by a machine learning model developed in our previous work, identifying them as optimal candidates under specific reaction conditions. To optimize reaction conditions, 29 non-catalytic tests were designed using Design-Expert software, varying temperature (385, 400, and 415 °C), feedstock concentration (1, 3, and 5 %wt), residence time (30, 45, and 60 min), and mixing ratio (25:75, 50:50, and 75:25) in a batch reactor without a stirrer. The software identified the optimal conditions (415 °C, 45 min, 3 %wt feed concentration, and a 50:50 mixing ratio) to maximize hydrogen yield. Under these optimized conditions, four nickel-based catalysts (Ni/Al2O3, Ni/MgO, Ni/ZnO, and Ni/ZrO2) were synthesized via wet impregnation and characterized using BET surface area analysis, X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), field emission scanning electron microscopy (FESEM), and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) techniques with ammonia (NH3) and carbon dioxide (CO2). Ni/MgO exhibited the highest hydrogen yield (5.45 mmol/g) and selectivity (72.8 %), while Ni/Al2O3 achieved the highest total gas yield (15.35 mmol/g) by promoting diverse gasification reactions. Catalytic enhancement resulted in a 78 % increase in hydrogen production compared to non-catalytic conditions. FTIR analysis of hydrochars confirmed that Ni/MgO facilitated the removal of oxygen and nitrogen-containing functional groups, increasing aromatic content and carbonization. Gas chromatography–mass spectrometry (GC-MS) revealed that elevated temperatures promoted the formation of phenols, alkanes, and hydrocarbons in the liquid product. Catalysts such as Ni/Al2O3 and Ni/ZnO led to an increased proportion of light hydrocarbons and a notable reduction in phenolic compounds, indicating enhanced hydrogenation and deoxygenation capabilities. A proposed reaction pathway, supported by experimental evidence, demonstrated a synergistic effect between biomass and plastic waste, where polypropylene enhanced hydrogen transfer reactions, facilitating the decomposition of lignin and hemicellulose into light hydrocarbons.