Nano-CaO as a heterogeneous catalyst for biodiesel synthesis by transesterification of Jatropha oil Background This research employs response surface methodology, specifically Central Composite Design (CCD), to optimize the process parameters for the effective production of biodiesel. Jatropha oil was utilized as the raw material to minimize expenses. A nanocatalyst was utilized as a solid catalyst, developed from CaCO3 via waste snail shells, offering advantages such as recyclability and improved catalytic activity during a transesterification process. The developed nanocatalyst was analyzed using various techniques, including dynamic light scattering (DLS), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Brunauer–Emmett–Teller (BET) analysis, and Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR). The BET analysis revealed a surface area of 5.1m2/g and the Barrett-Joyner-Halenda (BJH) analysis provided insights into the pore volume and diameter of the synthesized nano-CaO, showing values of 0.002556 cc/g and 1.1 nm, respectively, indicating the presence of both microspores and active sites on the external surface of the nano-CaO catalyst. Biodiesel conversion was controlled by adjusting factors like the methanol to oil ratio, catalyst weight, reaction time, reaction temperature, and agitation speed. A quadratic model was established to explore the correlation between the independent variables and the biodiesel conversion rate. The results showed a maximum biodiesel conversion rate of 96.73% under the optimal conditions: methanol to oil ratio (6:1), catalyst weight (1.4 wt%), reaction time (60 min), reaction temperature (55 °C), and agitation speed (250 rpm). These parameters were determined through 32 experimental trials. The RSM technique yielded impressive results with a determined coefficient of determination (R2) of 0.9834, adjusted R2 of 0.8503, predicted R2 of 0.8309, and a coefficient of variance (CV) 0.75%. Based on the analysis of variance (ANOVA) findings, the model exhibits a high level of significance (p<0.0001), which is less than 0.05 and F- Value 29.71.The study aims to enhance the yield and efficiency of the transesterification process, thereby increasing the overall production of fatty acid methyl ester from Jatropha oil. This innovative approach efficiently generates biodiesel from renewable resources, in a manner that is both environmentally friendly and maximizes the effectiveness of the process parameters. The evaluation conform that the quality of the biodiesel met the standards set by ASTM D 6751 and EN 14214.