Process reconfiguration for the production of 1, 4-butanediol integrating coal with off-grid renewable electricity As an important chemical intermediate, the production of 1,4-butanediol (BDO) mainly depends on the reaction between formaldehyde and acetylene (Reppe method). This process suffers from high CO2 emissions in the preparation stage of formaldehyde, acetylene, and hydrogen. The green electricity generated by renewable energy is introduced into the system in the form of hydrogen. This provides a renewable source of hydrogen and aids in converting the carbon in raw coal into the desired product, thereby further reducing CO2 emissions. This study introduces a novel approach for producing 1,4-butanediol by combining coal with off-grid renewable electricity. The proposed reconfiguration process (ALK-CtBDO) involves the implementation of a new calcium carbide production process of coal-coke-electricity grading substitution method (GSM) and a coal-to-methanol process with near-zero carbon emissions, named pulverized coal gasification integrated green hydrogen (PCGwGH-CtM) system and uses green power to electrify utility engineering. The direct CO2 emissions decreased from 3616.73 kg CO2/t BDO in the conventional CtBDO process to 768.07 kg CO2/t BDO in the reconfiguration process. The introduction of renewable energy effectively improves the carbon utilization efficiency, increasing it to 68.05% in the ALK-CtBDO process from 34.18% in the CtBDO process. Through the electrification process, the indirect emissions from utilities that use electricity are 1824.57 kg CO2/t BDO for the CtBDO process and 378.97 kg CO2/t BDO for the ALK-CtBDO process, respectively. The reconfiguration process demonstrates an energy efficiency of 43.28%, representing an improvement from the previous energy efficiency of 40.21% in the conventional process. The process of reconstruction holds a competitive advantage in terms of economic performance when the renewable energy price falls below 0.2 CNY/kWh. This study provides an important reference for the integration of CtBDO with renewable energy, contributing to the promotion of sustainable development in the industry.