A review on dual functionality of dimensional carbon nanomaterials for adsorption and mediated degradation of MPs in wastewater The presence of microplastics (MPs) in wastewater has formed an emerging area of environmental concern. These tiny plastic particles, derived from the degradation of synthetic polymers, accumulate in ecosystems, posing severe threats to aquatic life and human health through physico-toxicological effects, and the transport of co-pollutants like heavy metals and pathogens. Conventional removal methods often fall short, necessitating advanced remediation strategies. This review explores the dual functionality of dimensional carbon nanomaterials (CNMs) in adsorbing and degrading MPs, offering a sustainable and efficient solution. Leveraging their tunable dimensionality, high surface area, and catalytic properties, CNMs excel in capturing MPs and facilitating their photocatalytic or microbial-assisted degradation. Therefore, the review examines the CNMs architectures, emphasizing how material dimensionality influences their performance. The dimensionality and unique properties of the CNMs have been highlighted as a driving force for their adsorption, microbial-assisted photocatalytic/photocatalytic-assisted degradation efficiency in the remediation of the MPs. The key findings emphasize that this dimensional matching strategy tailored CNM structures to complement MPs geometries, creating optimal interfaces for simultaneous adsorption and degradation, overcoming size-dependent remediation challenges. The review critically analyzes how dimensional synergy of the CNMs enhances the removal efficiency and degradation kinetics through optimized structural and surface dimensional interactions, demonstrating superior performance over conventional methods while enabling morphology-specific degradation pathways. Dimensionality governs functionality, as 2D materials enable photocatalytic degradation, 1D CNTs facilitate π-π stacking capture, and 3D aerogels combine adsorption with catalytic sites. Hybrid systems can achieve >90 % removal but face agglomeration and regeneration challenges for scale-up. Despite promising advances, challenges such as the architectural design of advanced CNMs for long-term stability and their effective applications for real wastewater remediation and sustainability for large-scale implementation remain persistent issue of MPs remediation in wastewater. However, the analysis culminates in a critical techno-economic assessment demonstrates that 3D aerogels are the most viable structure, as their physical encapsulation mechanism provides necessary resilience against natural organic matter (NOM) fouling and salt-induced restacking, directly translating to superior material lifespan and lower lifecycle cost in high-volume MPs remediation. Hence, this can bridge the gap between laboratory innovation and practical implementation.