Cellulose nanocrystals-filled poly (vinyl alcohol) nanocomposites as waterborne coating materials of NPK fertilizer with slow release and water retention properties Effective fertilizers management is essential for sustainable agricultural practices. One way to improve agronomic practices is by using slow-release fertilizers (SRF) that have shown interesting role in optimizing nutrients availability for plants growth. Considering the current ecological concerns, coated SRF using ecofriendly materials continue to attract great attention. In this context, novel waterborne and biodegradable coating nanocomposite formulations were elaborated from cellulose nanocrystals (CNC)-filled poly (vinyl alcohol) (PVA) for slow release NPK fertilizer with water retention property. CNC were extracted from hemp stalks using sulfuric acid hydrolysis process and their physico-chemical characteristics were investigated. CNC with various weight loadings (6, 10, 14.5 wt%) were incorporated into PVA polymer via solvent mixing method to produce viscous coating nanocomposite formulations with moderated shear viscosity. Uniform PVA@CNC coating microlayer was applied on the surface of NPK fertilizer granules in Wurster chamber of a fluidized bed dryer at controlled spraying and drying parameters. The nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium release profiles from coated NPK fertilizer were determined in water and soil. It was found that the coating materials extended the N-P-K nutrients release time from 3 days for uncoated fertilizer to 10 and 30 days for neat PVA- and CNC/PVA-coated fertilizer in soil medium, indicating the positive role of the presence of CNC in the PVA-based coatings. The morphology, coating rate and crushing strength of the as-prepared coated products were investigated in addition to their effect on water holding capacity and water retention of the soil. Enhanced crushing strength and water retention with a positive effect on the soil moisture were observed after coating NPK fertilizer, mainly with high CNC content (14.5 wt%). Therefore, these proposed nanocomposite coating materials showed a great potential for producing a new class of SRF with high nutrients use efficiency and water retention capacity, which could be beneficial to sustainable crop production.