Recent advances in hydrogen supplementation to promote biomass fuels for reducing greenhouse gases Energy security is the foremost concern for a sustainable environment. To make a sustainable environment, biomass waste products like biomass oil and biofuels must be efficiently burned. As millions of tons of waste biomass are dumped daily in major cities worldwide, it must be brought into energy products utilization. The quest for a sustainable ecosystem has pushed scientists to explore alternative fuels that are not only compatible with the engine but also eco-friendly. Hydrogen exhibits excellent combustion characteristics during dual fuel mode in a compression ignition (CI) engine. Carbon dioxide and NOx emissions are the two significant pollutants alternative fuels produce. This review study has tried to mitigate these two pollutants by combining biodiesel and hydrogen. It has been investigated that hydrogen possesses zero carbon content and can reduce CO2 emission, and biodiesel made from algae resources can help reduce NOx emission. Therefore, it is highlighted through the current review study to use the blend of hydrogen and algae-based biodiesel fuels to achieve benefits from their combined physicochemical properties and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. The carbon-free nature of hydrogen and the oxygenated nature of biodiesel can be an excellent combination for combustion in diesel engines. Adopting third-generation fuels such as algae appears to be a viable solution to meet future energy demands. Biodiesel has a lower calorific value and viscous nature, negatively impacting fuel spray characteristics and creating abrupt fuel consumption. The purpose of this study is to promote biomass oil burning using hydrogen as a promoter supplement blend. Hydrogen has a higher heating value that can help overcome the less heating value of biodiesel fuels. Therefore, hydrogen as a blend with biodiesel makes the mixture lean and positively impacts engine performance, emissions, and combustion parameters.