Effective degradation of polystyrene microplastics by Ti/La/Co-Sb-SnO2 anodes: Enhanced electrocatalytic stability and electrode lifespan Microplastics have been identified as an emerging pollutant that poses a risk to the aquatic environment, and it is a challenge to find a suitable removal process. Electrocatalytic oxidation (ECO) technology has shown promising performance in removing various persistent organic pollutants. In this study, we prepared a new anode for removing polystyrene microplastics (PS MPs) by ECO. Ti/La-Sb-SnO2 electrodes doped with the rare earth element La as the active layer were synthesized to enhance the electrocatalytic activity. The lifespan of the electrode was improved by doping Mn, Co, or Ru as an intermediate layer modification between the titanium (Ti) substrate and the La-Sb-SnO2 active layer, respectively. The experimental results indicated that the addition of three types of intermediate layers led to different degrees of decrease in the catalytic activity of the electrode and the degradation performance of PS MPs. The addition of the Co intermediate layer had a negligible effect on the catalytic activity and performance of the Ti/La-Sb-SnO2 anode for PS degradation. In addition, the electrode lifespan with Co intermediate layer was significantly prolonged, which was 4.54, 2.38, and 1.19 times higher than the electrode without intermediate layer and the electrode with Ru and Mn intermediate layer, respectively. Therefore, Co was determined to be the optimal choice as the intermediate layer, and the production technique for the Ti/La/Co-Sb-SnO2 anodes was carefully adjusted. The degradation efficiency of PS MPs was optimized at a heat treatment temperature of 400 °C and a Sn: Co material ratio of 5:1, with a removal rate of 28.0 %. The ECO treatment also resulted in more pronounced changes in the structure and functional groups of the MPs. Various alkyl cleavage and oxidation products were detected after the treatment, suggesting that the oxidant (hydroxyl radicals) strongly interacted with the MPs, leading to their degradation. Overall, this work provided a new insight into removing MPs in water through the use of modified electrodes.