PHB/PBAT blended melt-blown micro-nano fiber carbon source for efficient solid-phase denitrification: Insights into low-carbon treatment and enhanced mechanism Advanced biocompatible materials are critical for controlling nitrogen pollution in water. To address low efficiency and high consumption of conventional materials, this study introduces a novel biodegradable polymer-based micro-nano fiber carbon source, synthesized via melt-blowing technology, blending poly-3-hydroxybutyrate (PHB) with polybutylene adipate-co-terephthalate (PBAT). This innovative design enhanced the specific surface area and porosity of the carbon source, with an average pore diameter of 59.66 μm and a fiber diameter of 11.61 μm. Compared to scraped film of the same composition, the micro-nano fiber enhanced denitrification efficiency, with higher 96.5% nitrate removal (53.44 mg NO3 −-N/d), negligible nitrite accumulation (0.008 mg/L) and slightly higher ammonium levels (0.67 mg/L) in 75 days. Morphological analysis revealed a reduction in pore size (59.66 μm to 28.00 μm) and enhanced degradation, marked by a 52.6% ester carbonyl cleavage rate and a 7.91% reduction in crystallinity. Dissolved organic matter analysis indicated stronger carbon release and active microbial metabolism without recalcitrant by-products. The phylum Proteobacteria dominated the microbial community, exhibiting 5.5% and 4.9% higher colonization levels on micro-nano fiber in batch and reactor system. Metagenomic analysis showed increased abundances of PHB degradation and dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA) genes. Mechanism analysis yielded that the micro-nano fiber improved microbial immobilization, gene expression, material degradation, and carbon supply, thereby enhancing denitrification. The consumption of micro-nano fibers was quantified at 0.82 kg/kg NO3 −-N, with a projected lifespan exceeding 800 days. This study provides a basis for designing advanced biocompatible materials that enhance solid-phase denitrification efficiency in water treatment.