Adsorption on activated carbons from end-of-life tyre pyrolysis for environmental applications. Part II. Adsorption from aqueous phase Activated carbons (ACs) are well-known, versatile adsorbents with a wide range of applications, particularly in the removal of various environmental pollutants from the gas and liquid phases. However, relatively high costs associated with the use of commercial active carbons encourage the search for new, alternative precursors for their production, such as waste tires. This paper is the second part of the literature review on the use of activated carbon from end-of-life tire (ELT) pyrolysis for environmental applications. The first part discusses the methods of preparation of ACs, including ELT pyrolysis and activation of the obtained carbonisate, as well as their practical application for adsorption from the gas phase. The second part reviewed the applicability of activated carbons produced from waste tires in inorganic and organic compounds removal from aqueous solutions. The effectiveness of ACs with different physicochemical properties, as well as the adsorption conditions such as solution pH, and temperature have been presented. Based on the literature review, it can be concluded that activated carbons are widely used to remove metal ions and organic compounds from water, although in the latter case, the works are much more numerous. Among organic compounds, dyes were the most frequently tested group of pollutants, but many studies also concern the adsorption of other pollutants, e.g., phenolic compounds and aromatic hydrocarbons, drugs, or pesticides. The applicability of various adsorption kinetic and isotherm models for water contaminants removal by the ACs has also been reported here. To describe the adsorption kinetics, the authors primarily use the pseudo-first-order (PFO) and pseudo-second-order (PSO) kinetic models; kinetics most often follow the PSO model. Adsorption equilibrium is best described by the Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm models. It is provenly evident in this review, that used tires can be efficiently converted into ACs, which are highly effective in removing contaminants from aqueous solutions.