Circular economy potential and contributions of petroleum industry sludge utilization to environmental sustainability through engineered processes - A review The petroleum industry activities unavoidably generate a large quantity of sludge named Petroleum industry sludge (PIS). The generation rate has been increasing because of the ascending energy demand. It is a potential energy resource. PIS has been shown to contain hazardous constituents that may have negative consequences on the environment and public health. Thus, the treatment and disposal of this waste is a global issue. Numerous treatment methods have been demonstrated to reduce sludge volume and toxicity and recover petroleum components. The sludge qualities affect how effective they are. These treatment strategies can reduce the toxic substances in sludge and reduce their detrimental effects on human health and the environment. However, because of the sludge's tenacious character, only a few technologies can meet strict environmental laws while using a sizable amount of water, electricity, and chemicals. PIS treatment methods that are both waste-free and cost-effective are currently unavailable. In terms of environmental engineering significance, this study adopted the systematic review to discuss the waste to resource potential applications of PIS for reusability in sustainable construction, wastewater treatment applications, and gas generation. PIS application ineffective microorganism biofertilizer production, levan production, rubber tires manufacturing, metal catalysts synthesis, carbon–clay composites for use in sensors and electronic devices were also discussed. That is not enough, this review also found that the adoption of the circular economy that represents a new direction to create value and prosperity by elongating product lifespan and moving the waste from the end of the supply chain to the outset is very important. Thus, the circular economy potential of PIS to achieve self-cycle operation through the concept of “wastes-treat-wastes” in the petroleum industry was extensively discussed.