A systematic review on tannery sludge to energy route: Current practices, impacts, strategies, and future directions The growing amount of tannery sludge (TS) generated from leather processing often undergoes uncontrolled landfilling, or open dumping, releasing a significant volume of harmful pollutants, including carcinogenic chromium (Cr) into the air, water, and soil. Therefore, the sustainable TS management through advanced valorization technologies becomes vital to align with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and mitigate the adverse environmental, health, and social impacts. Moreover, TS, as biomass, can be considered a renewable energy source for bioenergy generation, which could be a viable solution for meeting contemporary environmental standards and expediting transition towards a circular economy. However, TS valorization is sensitive and critical due to the potential risk of transforming Cr(III) to Cr(VI) during the valorization process. Therefore, there is an urgency to consider efficient and holistic TS valorization technologies in the design, implementation, and operations phases to avoid any environmental and health hazards. In pursuit of this goal, this systematic literature review (SLR) comprehensively and critically analyzes the existing TS valorization processes to develop sustainable energy recovery solutions from TS. This SLR contributes uniquely to the existing literature in different ways. Firstly, it provides a critical evaluation of the current TS valorization technologies identifying the available waste-to-energy recovery options. Secondly, the review encompasses extensive research from three reputed databases such as Scopus, Web of Science, and ScienceDirect, without temporal restrictions to offer a comprehensive understanding of current TS management practices and available valorization techniques. Moreover, the review categorized 124 published papers into distinct groups, revealing promising avenues for future research in this field. The findings indicated that most of the work concentrating on Chrome (Cr) recovery, pyrolysis, anaerobic co-digestion, and solidification while gasification and biodiesel or biofuel production from TS remained largely unexplored. Additionally, vital aspects such as process optimization, life cycle assessment of different valorization techniques, environmental, economy, energy, emergy, and exergy (5E) analysis, life cycle energy balance, and techno-economic analysis including exergoeconomic and exergoenvironmental are completely absent in the literature. Future studies need to concentrate on process optimization, exergy and energy analysis, and techno-economic assessment including exergoeconomic and exergoenvironmental analysis to understand the feasibility and environmental benefits of various TS valorization technologies and to develop industry-scale valorization plants for TS management in an economically and ecologically sustainable manner. Moreover, the review will serve as a comprehensive guide for scholars, authorities, and stakeholders to advance research in this field and formulate policies for the eco-friendly management of TS, paving the way towards clean energy solutions.