Thermogravimetric kinetic analysis and pollutant evolution during the pyrolysis and combustion of mobile phone case The increase in electronic waste, including cellular telephones, worldwide is a worrying reality. For this reason, urgent action on the management of these wastes is necessary within a framework that respects the environment and human health. Mobile phone components can be physically segregated through grinding at the dismantling sites, in order to reuse or reprocess (via chemical or physical recycling) the recovered plastics and valuable metals. A kinetic study of the thermal decomposition of a mobile phone case has been carried out under different conditions by thermogravimetry. Several experiments were performed in a nitrogen atmosphere (pyrolysis runs) and also in an oxidative atmosphere with two different oxygen concentrations (10% and 20% oxygen in nitrogen). Dynamic runs and dynamic+isothermal runs have been carried out to obtain much decomposition data under different operating conditions. Moreover some TG–MS runs were performed in order to better understand the thermal decomposition of a mobile phone case and identify some compounds emitted during the controlled heating of this material. A scheme of two independent reactions for pseudocomponents has been proposed for the pyrolysis process. For the combustion runs, the scheme proposed includes two pyrolytic reactions competing with other two reactions with formation of an intermediate residue, and finally the reaction of oxidation/burning of the intermediate residue. Furthermore, pyrolysis and combustion runs at 500°C in a horizontal laboratory furnace were carried out. More than 50 compounds, including carbon oxides, light hydrocarbons, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) have been identified and quantified. The main semivolatile compounds detected were phenol and styrene. Furthermore, polychlorodibenzo-p-dioxin and polychlorodibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) and dioxin-like PCBs produced were analyzed. In the combustion run, PCDDs were obtained in higher amounts than PCDFs and HxCDD was the most emitted homologue.