A review on the synergistic efficacy of sonication-assisted water treatment process with special attention given to microplastics The rampant spread of microplastic pollution in both natural and industrial water bodies has emerged as a paramount environmental concern. Regrettably, conventional water treatment methods (e.g., adsorption, membrane filtration, coagulation-flocculation, and electrocoagulation, processes) have been discovered to be inadequately effective in tackling this issue. However, the advent of sonication-assisted water treatment technologies has shown great promise in curbing microplastic pollution. This review article expounds on the latest trends in sonication-assisted water treatment technologies for microplastic removal. A comparison between conventional water treatment methods and sonication-assisted procedures elucidates the pros and cons of each were conducted. Additionally, an exploration of various sonication-assisted techniques and their potent efficacy in removing microplastics was undertaken. Sonochemical, Sonoelectrochemical, Sonophotocatalytic, Sonofenton, and Sonoelectrocatalytic, may be used for microplastics (MPs) removal, it has been demonstrated that ultrasonic frequencies between 100 and 1000 kHz for the sonochemical process are more useful than frequencies below 20 kHz. Generally, sonication methods have good compatibility and attachment to other biological or physical processes and increase the cavitation-induced concentration of the reactive radical in the bulk phase. Also, When Fenton processes are combined with sonication, the number of ferrous ions present in the treated water decreases due to easy handling, quick degradation, and a wide pH range that can be used. The economic aspects are the biggest challenges in synergistic efficacy of sonication-assisted water treatment for microplastics mitigation. The paramount importance of continued research and development to refine and optimize sonication-assisted water treatment technologies for practical implementation was concluded.