A new strategy toward synthesis of novel bifunctional N- and S-bearing sorbent for platinum(IV) removal from aqueous solutions and acidic leaching residue of Pt/Al2O3 catalyst Strong incentive politics have been elaborated for promoting the recovery of precious metals from secondary resources. Solid leaching generates acidic effluents that can be pre-treated using precipitation steps for partial separation before applying sorption for metal recovery from mild acidic solutions. For this purpose, a new sorbent was designed carrying numerous N- and S-bearing reactive groups with good affinity for platinum (as chloroanionic species). Thiazole precursors were first reacted before being grafted (by free radical reaction) with triallyl cyanurate (to form CTTR sorbent). The material was characterized by a series of analytical tools (SEM, BET, FTIR, XPS, TGA, elemental analysis, and titration). The effect of pH combined with FTIR and XPS spectroscopy analyses allowed identifying the mechanisms involved in metal binding: electrostatic attraction of chloroplatinate anions with protonated amine groups (especially in acidic conditions), while at moderate acidic pH, metal sorption proceeds through ligand exchange and chelation onto N-based and S-based groups. Optimum sorption was found at pH close to 4 (near pHpzc value). Under selected experimental conditions, the equilibrium was reached in 25–35 min. The pseudo-first order rate equation fitted well experimental profile (though the resistance to intraparticle diffusion contributed to the kinetic control). The maximum sorption capacity at room temperature reached up to 1.58 mmol Pt g−1 (at pH 4). The sorption isotherm was successfully fitted by the Temkin equation. The sorption is spontaneous and exothermic (with reduction in maximum sorption capacity reaching up to 25 %, when temperature increases to 50 °C). Optimum platinum desorption was obtained with 0.3 M HCl solution (with solid/liquid ratio 1.67 g L−1) for complete desorption and enrichment factor close to 4.6. Complete desorption was maintained over 5 cycles, while the sorption efficiency decreased by less than 3.5 % at the fifth cycle. The sorbent showed remarkable stability for PGMs (Pd(II) in addition to Pt(IV)) against alkali-earth elements or base metals (from equimolar synthetic solutions); the selectivity is driven by the preference of the reactive groups (soft base and intermediary base) for soft PGM metals against hard and borderline metal ions; this selectivity is also affected by metal speciation (formation of chloro-anionic species). The valorization of platinum from non-compliant Pt/Al2O3 catalyst was investigated after leaching with aqua regia. Platinum was precipitated from the leachate with ammonium chloride. In a second step, aluminum was removed by precipitation at pH 5. The residual solution was then treated by adsorption on CTTR: optimum separation between Pt and Al was achieved at pH ≈ 3.