One-step synthesis of carbonaceous adsorbent from soybean bio-residue by microwave heating: Adsorptive, antimicrobial and antifungal behavior In this work, the transformation of soybean industrial bio-residue with limited practical applications, into a multifunctional carbonaceous adsorbent (SBAC) via one-step microwave-irradiation has been succeeded. The surface porosity, chemical compositions, functionalities and surface chemistry were featured by microscopic pore-textural analysis, elemental constitution analysis, morphological characterization and Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy. The adsorptive performance of SBAC was evaluated in a batch experiment by adopting different classes of water pollutants, specifically methylene blue (MB), acetaminophen and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D). The equilibrium uptakes were analyzed with respect to the non-linearized Langmuir, Freundlich and Temkin isotherm equations. The unique features of SBAC, specifically the antimicrobial and antifungal efficacies were examined against gram-positive/negative bacteria and fungi species. An ordered microporous-mesoporous structure of SBAC, with the BET surface area and total pore volume of 1696 m2/g and 0.94 m3/g, respectively, has been achieved. The equilibrium data of MB and acetaminophen were found to be in good agreement with the Langmuir isotherm model, with the monolayer adsorption capacities (Q o ) of 434.57 mg/g and 393.31 mg/g, respectively. The adsorptive experiment of 2,4-D was best fitted to the Freundlich isotherm equation, with the Q o of 253.17 mg/g. The regeneration performance of the spent SBAC under microwave-irradiation could maintain at 69.42–79.31%, even after five (5) adsorption-regeneration cycles. SBAC exhibited excellent inhibition efficiencies against gram-positive/negative bacteria and fungi species, with the inhibition zones at 14.0–28.0 mm. This newly developed SBAC appears to be a new powerful candidate for the remediation of different classes of water contaminants, and novel antibacterial and antifungal agents against biological contaminations. The novel concept of “turn waste into wealth” in a cost-effective and energy saving manner for environmental preservation has been successfully accomplished.