Biomass directional pyrolysis based on element economy to produce high-quality fuels, chemicals, carbon materials – A review Biomass is regarded as the only carbon-containing renewable energy source and has performed an increasingly important role in the gradual substitution of conventional fossil energy, which also contributes to the goals of carbon neutrality. In the past decade, the academic field has paid much greater attention to the development of biomass pyrolysis technologies. However, most biomass conversion technologies mainly derive from the fossil fuel industry, and it must be noticed that the large element component difference between biomass and traditional fossil fuels. Thus, it's necessary to develop biomass directional pyrolysis technology based on the unique element distribution of biomass for realizing enrichment target element (i.e., element economy). This article provides a broad review of biomass directional pyrolysis to produce high-quality fuels, chemicals, and carbon materials based on element economy. The C (carbon) element economy of biomass pyrolysis is realized by the production of high-performance carbon materials from different carbon sources. For efficient H (hydrogen) element utilization, high-value hydrocarbons could be obtained by the co-pyrolysis or catalytic pyrolysis of biomass and cheap hydrogen source. For improving the O (oxygen) element economy, different from the traditional hydrodeoxygenation (HDO) process, the high content of O in biomass would also become an advantage because biomass is an appropriate raw material for producing oxygenated liquid additives. Based on the N (nitrogen) element economy, the recent studies on preparing N-containing chemicals (or N-rich carbon materials) are reviewed. Moreover, the feasibility of the biomass poly-generation industrialization and the suitable process for different types of target products are also mentioned. Moreover, the enviro-economic assessment of representative biomass pyrolysis technologies is analyzed. Finally, the brief challenges and perspectives of biomass pyrolysis are provided.