Efficient methane production from anaerobic co-digestion of lignin-based feedstock and waste plastic: Digester performance and microbial community structures Waste plastic (WP) and lignocellulosic biomass (LCB) are both refractory polymers that can provide feedstocks for the production of fuels. Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a widely recognized technology utilized in waste management and renewable energy production. It involves the utilization of microorganisms to decompose organic matter into methane (CH4). Nevertheless, mono-digestion, which refers to AD utilizing a single feedstock, encounters difficulties related to the properties of the feedstock. Therefore, the utilization of co-digestion with multiple feedstocks provides the potential to overcome these limitations. This study might be the first to examine the impact of co-digestion of low-density polyethylene (LDPE) with rice straw (RS) for biogas and CH4 production. The cumulative CH4 production for AD-1, AD-2, AD-3, AD-4, AD-5, and AD-6 was 154.9, 177.4, 52.0, 81.2, 98.43, and 135.15 NmL/g VS. The methane energy yields varied between 2.29 and 7.64 MJ/m3, while their respective β ece values spanned from 17.6 to 58.8 %. Volatile solid removal was enhanced for the treated RS-LDPE mixture, as demonstrated in AD-6, in comparison to the untreated substrate in the AD-2 digester. There is a notable disparity in the composition of bacterial communities within the bioreactors that were constructed prior to and subsequent to the AD process. The proliferating Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Protobacteria were crucial to the AD of RS and LDPE. The three predominant methanogenic genera present in the constructed digesters and inoculum were Methanobacterium, Methanolinea, and Methanosarcina, each with a distinct abundance level. The findings open up the possibility of better understanding the effect of co-digestion of WP and LCB on enhancing CH4 production, which is critical for developing strategies for bioremediation and waste valorization simultaneously with biofuel production.