Composition and functional group characterization of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) in activated sludge: the impacts of polymerization degree of proteinaceous substrates Characteristics of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) in activated sludge strongly depend on wastewater substrates. Proteinaceous substrates (ProS) present in heterogeneous polymeric form are intrinsic and important parts of wastewater substrates for microorganisms in activated sludge systems. However, correlations between ProS and characteristics of EPS are scarce. This study systematically explored the impacts of monomeric (Mono-), low polymeric (LoP-) and high polymeric (HiP-) ProS on compositions and functional groups of EPS in activated sludge. The results showed that the change of polymerization degree of ProS significantly altered the composition of EPS. Compared to EPSMono-ProS, the proportion of proteins in EPSLoP-ProS and EPSHiP-ProS increased by 12.8% and 27.7%, respectively, while that of polysaccharides decreased by 22.9% and 63.6%, respectively. Moreover, the proportion of humic compounds in EPSLoP-ProS and EPSHiP-ProS were ∼6 and ∼16–fold higher than that in EPSMono-ProS, respectively. The accumulation of humic compounds in EPS increased the unsaturation degree of EPS molecules, and thereby reduced the energy requirement for electrons transition of amide bonds and aromatic groups. Size exclusion chromatography (SEC) analyses detected more molecular clusters in EPSHiP-ProS, indicating more complex composition of EPS in HiP-ProS fed activated sludge. Spectroscopic characterization revealed the dominance of hydrocarbon, protein, polysaccharide and aromatic associated bonds in all three EPS. Nevertheless, with the increase of polymerization degree of ProS, the protein associated bonds (such as CONH, CO, NC, NH) increased, while the polysaccharide associated bonds (such as COC, COH, OCOH) decreased. This paper paves a path to understand the role of ProS in affecting the production and characteristics of EPS in biological wastewater treatment systems.