Porous ceramics: Light in weight but heavy in energy and environment technologies Benefitting from the combined properties of intrinsic ceramic materials and advanced porous configuration, lightweight porous ceramics with porosity ranging from 2.3 to 99% and pore size distribution within 3 nm - 3 mm exhibit low density, large specific surface area, high toughness, strong thermal shock resistance, good thermal insulation capability, excellent high temperature stability, and low dielectric constant, which are barely offered by metal, polymer or even their dense counterpart. This unique set of features endow porous ceramics an indispensable role in the future development of sustainable energy and environmental applications. To be successfully applied in these applications, precise selection of the type of ceramics and creation of their detailed structural features of the pores are the most important stages that require intensive investigations and comprehensive understanding. For a given ceramic, the synthesis process is critical for achieving the desired pore configuration and geometry which eventually determines the final properties of the products, including both the usual mechanical properties and other advanced functionalities. In this review, we will first focus on the fabrication processes that determine the pore structures and geometries. Four mainstream fabrication methods: partial sintering, replica template, sacrificial template, and direct foaming will be discussed, in addition to the additive manufacturing technique which has emerged as a promising process for the direct fabrication of porous ceramics components. Each approach demonstrates its unique suitability for a specific range of materials, porosity, pore size, pore connectivity, and pore distribution. The principles and challenges of each synthesis strategies will be summarised and discussed, the progress that can be made to meet the requirement of advanced applications has been clarified. We then focus on the properties derived from different pore features. The superior damage tolerance and thermal insulation capability of porous ceramics, as compared with their dense counterpart, are presented. Thirdly, the great potentials of these interesting porous ceramics for the energy- and environmental-based applications, including filters, catalyst support, energy storage and conversion components, energy harvesting devices, and insulators are highlighted, in association with the criteria and demands for manufacturing processes. It is envisaged that this review will provide a guidance in the manufacture of advanced porous ceramics with desired pore structures and properties tailored for specific applications. Finally, we will demonstrate how these porous ceramics could contribute to the development of current and future energy and environment technologies.