Photooxidative and pyrolytic degradation of methyl methacrylate-alkyl acrylate copolymers Different compositions of poly(methyl methacrylate-co-methyl acrylate) (PMMAMA), poly(methyl methacrylate-co-ethyl acrylate) (PMMAEA) and poly(methyl methacrylate-co-butyl acrylate) (PMMABA) copolymers were synthesized and characterized. The photocatalytic oxidative degradation of all these copolymers were studied in presence of two different catalysts namely Degussa P-25 and combustion synthesized titania using azobis-iso-butyronitrile and benzoyl peroxide as oxidizers. Gel permeation chromatography (GPC) was used to determine the molecular weight distribution of the samples as a function of time. The GPC chromatogram indicated that the photocatalytic oxidative degradation of all these copolymers proceeds by both random and chain end scission. Continuous distribution kinetics was used to develop a model for photocatalytic oxidative degradation considering both random and specific end scission. The degradation rate coefficients were determined by fitting the experimental data with the model. The degradation rate coefficients of the copolymers decreased with increase in the percentage of alkyl acrylate in the copolymer. This indicates that the photocatalytic oxidative stability of the copolymers increased with increasing percentage of alkyl acrylate. From the degradation rate coefficients, it was observed that the photocatalytic oxidative stability follows the order PMMABA > PMMAEA > PMMAMA. The thermal degradation of the copolymers was studied by using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The normalized weight loss and differential fractional weight loss profiles indicated that the thermal stability of the copolymer increases with an increase in the percentage of alkyl acrylate and the thermal stability of poly(methyl methacrylate-co-alkyl acrylate)s follows the order PMMAMA > PMMAEA > PMMABA. The observed contrast in the order of photostability and thermal stability of the copolymers was attributed to different mechanisms involved for the scission of polymer chain and formation of different products in both the processes.