Microwave-responsive SiC foam@zeolite core-shell structured catalyst for catalytic pyrolysis of plastics Catalytic pyrolysis is a promising chemical recycling technology to supplement mechanical recycling since plastics can be broken down into monomers or converted to the required fuels and chemicals. In this study, a microwave (MW) -responsive SiC foam@zeoltie core-shell structured catalyst was proposed for the catalytic pyrolysis of polyolefins. Under microwave irradiation, the SiC foam core works as both microwave adsorber and catalyst support, thus concentrating the generated heat energy on the ZSM-5 zeolite shell, where the catalytic reaction takes place. SiC foam with an open cellular structure can also improve the global transport of mass and heat during plastics pyrolysis. In this work, the effects of the SiO2/Al2O3 ratio and alkaline treatment of ZSM-5 zeolite coated SiC foam under MW irradiation on the variations in product distribution from low-density polyethylene (LDPE) pyrolysis were investigated at 450 °C. The results indicated that the appropriate acidity and pore structure were crucial to upgrading gas and liquid products. Particularly, the creation of a mesoporous structure in ZSM-5 zeolite via alkaline treatment could improve the diffusion of large molecules and products, thus significantly increasing the selectivity of high-valued light olefins and aromatics while inhibiting the formation of unwanted alkanes, which are expected in the chemical industry. Concretely, the concentration of olefins in gas increased to 51.0 vol% for ZSM-5(50)-0.25AT, and 65.6 vol% for ZSM-5 (50)-0.50AT, compared with 45.2 vol% for the parent ZSM-5(50). The relative concentration of aromatics in liquid decreased from 96.6% for ZSM-5(50) to 75.9% for ZSM-5(50)-0.25AT, and 71.1% for ZSM-5(50)-0.50AT. Given the respective yield of gas and liquid, the total selectivity of C2–C4 olefins and aromatics for mesoporous ZSM-5 zeolites could reach 58.6–64.9% during LDPE pyrolysis, which were higher than that for the parent ZSM-5 zeolite.