Advances in coupled multiphase flow and heat transfer in nanoporous media: Current status, challenges, and frontier directions Nanoporous media serve as the cornerstone for developing next-generation renewable and sustainable energy systems, with key application areas including high-density energy storage, carbon capture, and low-energy water purification. However, the full realization of their potential depends on our ability to master the complex multiphase flow and heat transfer processes within their nanopores. At present, understanding the complex coupling mechanisms at these microscales remains a core challenge in this field. To address this challenge, this review aims to systematically sort out and summarize the current research status of the coupling mechanisms of multiphase flow and heat transfer in nanoporous media. The significance of this paper lies in providing researchers with a comprehensive knowledge framework and reference by in-depth analyzing experimental characterization technologies (such as in-situ electron microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, etc.), numerical simulation methods, and key regulation strategies. This paper is committed to clarifying the special laws of multiphase flow, the complexity of heat transfer mechanisms, and their coupling effects, aiming to provide solid theoretical guidance and innovative ideas for the design of new functional materials, the optimization of existing material properties, and related engineering applications. Relevant studies have shown that with proper regulation, heat and mass transfer efficiency can be improved by 10 %–30 %. This review focuses on commenting on various in-situ experimental technologies including scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy, and discusses the latest progress in multiscale research methods and numerical simulations. On this basis, the paper looks forward to future research directions, predicting the development of new nanoporous materials, the innovation of advanced experimental technologies, the breakthrough of multiscale modeling, and the application of artificial intelligence-assisted research methods. Ultimately, this study is expected to promote the progress of research on multiphase flow and heat transfer in nanoporous media and contribute to solving major scientific and engineering challenges.