Synergistic removal of arsenic and fluoride dual contaminants in water by engineered phosphogypsum-biochar composite: Adsorption behavior and mechanisms The co-contamination of fluoride (F−) and arsenic (As5+) in water has become a global environmental issue, posing a serious threat to humans and aquatic organisms. Most previous studies have employed metal-loaded biochar to remove F− and As5+, but many of them have faced issues with high costs and low efficiency. To remove F− and As5+ from polluted water and improve the level of solid waste resource utilization, this study used phosphogypsum to prepare distillers grains modified engineered biochar (DGMC600) for removing F− and As5+ from water. The effects of pyrolysis temperature, mass ratio, dosage, solution pH, coexisting ions (CO3 2−, SO4 2−, PO4 3 −, Cl−, K+, Ca2+, Na+, NH4 +), and organic matter (humic acid and fulvic acid) on the adsorption of F− and As5+ by DGMC600 were investigated. The adsorption performance and mechanism of F− and As5+ on DGMC600 were investigated through adsorption kinetics and isotherm model combined with advanced characterization techniques, including Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM), X-ray Diffraction (XRD), and Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR). Additionally, DGMC600 was subjected to cyclic regeneration and reuse as well as dynamic adsorption experiments to assess its potential applications. The results show that when the pyrolysis temperature is 600℃, the phosphogypsum to distillers grains ratio for DGMC preparation is 1:1, the pH is 6.0, and the dosage is 0.10 g, the adsorption capacity of F− and As5+ by DGMC reaches the maximum, which are 114.40 mg/g and 196.09 mg/g, respectively. The adsorption process and behavior conform to the pseudo-second-order kinetic model and Freundlich isotherm adsorption model. Precipitation and surface complexation are the key adsorption mechanisms for immobilizing F− and As5+, respectively. DGMC600 has satisfactory recovery performance, with a fluoride adsorption capacity retention rate of 75.23 % after the fifth desorption cycle. Moreover, the adsorption effect of DGMC600 on As5+ is better than that of F−, and DGMC600 has a strong affinity for As5+. This study demonstrates that DGMC600 can effectively remove F− and As5+, providing a new approach to solid waste resource utilization.