Title: Study on co-pyrolysis of enzymolytic lignin and high-density polyethylene: Effects of pyrolysis parameters and synergistic interactions on the product distribution and characteristics
Abstract: Co-pyrolysis is an effective way to achieve high-value utilization of lignin and plastics. Investigating their synergistic effects during co-pyrolysis can facilitate product regulation and enhance co-pyrolysis oil quality. In this study, co-pyrolysis of enzymatic hydrolysis lignin (EHL) and high-density polyethylene plastics (HDPE) with high C/H ratio was studied via thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and a fixed-bed vertical tube furnace to reveal their pyrolysis characteristics, synergistic effects and product distribution. The co-pyrolysis temperatures and high-density polyethylene (HDPE) content in the mixture ranged from 500 to 700 °C and 0 to 100 wt%, respectively, in the fixed-bed vertical tube furnace experiments. Thermogravimetric analysis showed a significant mutual promotion in thermal decomposition at E:H = 3:7. It was found that higher temperature and HDPE ratio favored gas formation, reduced char production, and promoted deoxidation, resulting in a decrease in the relative contents of CO and CO2. The chars structure became loose with the increase of temperature and HDPE addition, while the aromatization degree and stability of chars decreased. Meanwhile, the elevated temperature and HDPE addition improved oil quality, achieving a high heating value (HHV) of 38.78 MJ/kg at 650 °C with an E:H ratio of 1:9. Although increasing temperature promoted aromatic formation, the addition of HDPE resulted in the synergistic effect of generating aromatics exhibiting both positive and negative characteristics. Specifically, at 650 °C and an E:H ratio of 1:1, the positive synergistic effect was most pronounced, resulting in 26.74 area% aromatics. In addition, the formation pathway of aromatics during co-pyrolysis of EHL and HDPE was proposed. This study provided data and theoretical insights into the co-pyrolysis technology of EHL and HDPE, facilitating the resource utilization of waste biomass and plastics.