Fast, ultradeep, and continuous desulfurization of heavy gasoil in novel oscillatory basket central baffled reactor using MnO2-incorparted Fe2O3- supported activated carbon catalyst To produce ultraclean fuel and reduce SOX emissions, the oxidative desulfurization (ODS) is the favorable promising alternative technology compared to the conventional hydrodesulfurization. Recently, oscillatory baffled reactor (OBR) is developed for continuous homogenous or batch heterogeneous catalytic ODS process. Up to now, there is no efficient design for handling the solid catalyst inside OBR for continuous heterogeneous desulfurization process. This study is focused on investigating the performance of novel design of oscillatory basket central baffled reactor (OBCBR) unit which solving the problem of handing the heterogeneous solid catalyst in the reactor by packing it in the baffle baskets for continuous and ultradeep ODS process. Novel dual fictionalized activated carbon (DFAC) loaded with manganese-iron oxides (5 % MnO2- 3 % Fe2O3/DFAC) catalyst is synthesized for removing of sulfur compounds from Iraqi real heavy gasoil (8291 ppm) using hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) as oxidant at mild process conditions: atmospheric pressure, temperatures (30 to 90 °C), residence times (3–12 min), oscillation frequencies (0.5–2 Hz), and amplitudes (3–12 mm). The results proved that the sulfur removal efficiency is significantly enhanced via increasing temperature, residence time, and oscillation conditions. The best removal efficiency was 99.54 % at 12 min, 90 °C, 2 Hz, and 12 mm. A remarkable enhancement in the desulfurization efficiency was conformed in the novel OBCBR within only 12 min compared to previous ODS works, which needed more than 1 hr to satisfy less sulfur removal efficiency. The interaction between MnO2 and Fe2O3 over activated carbon (AC) is remarkably enhanced the desulfurization efficiency due to provide more active sites, increase the adsorption capacity for sulfur compounds, and modify the pore structure and surface chemistry of AC. The synthesis catalyst attained a peripheral reduction in overall sulfur removal after five ODS cycles. The regeneration performance using different solvents through the continuous solvent regeneration (CSR) process are decreased based on the following order: iso-octane > ethanol > methanol > n-hexane. The regeneration efficiency of the novel catalyst is approximately 100 % after one regeneration cycle using iso-octane.