Analytical pyrolysis (Py-GC-MS) for the assessment of olive mill pomace composting efficiency and the effects of compost thermal treatment Composting is an interesting solution for recycling the large amount of residues typically generated in olive oil production areas, particularly olive mill pomace. Bulking agents must be added to wet olive mill pomace for composting. The diversity of the materials used (such as olive tree-pruning residues, animal manure, or straw) and the variable proportion, in which they are mixed, are responsible for the heterogeneity and variability of the quality of the produced compost. For this reason, a comprehensive characterization of compost organic matter is necessary to gain information about its stability and maturity useful as well as to predict its behavior as a soil amendment. In this work, fresh olive mill pomace and four composted olive mill pomace samples were characterized using analytical pyrolysis coupled with gas chromatography and mass spectrometry (Py-GC-MS). Results showed a large variety of pyrolysis products, many of which had a specific biochemical origin. Pyrolysis-GC-MS revealed a decrease in fatty acids and aliphatic compounds content with composting, along with carbohydrates degradation and an increase in phenolic and N-compounds levels. Furthermore, the differences observed in organic matter characteristics had an impact on agronomic aspects (water repellency and phytotoxicity). Thus, the occurrence of fatty acids in incompletely composted materials (mainly palmitic and cis-vaccenic acids) was associated with increased phytotoxicity and higher water repellency. The presence of chicken manure in the mixtures was proved to favor the humification process and the production of stabilized compost (characterized by a lower Aliphatic-C/Aromatic-C ratio and higher N-heterocycles content). Furthermore, in this work, the effectiveness of applying thermal treatments to improve compost quality has been evaluated. Analysis of the Py-GC-MS results by means of principal component analysis (PCA) revealed thermal rearrangement, predominantly aromatization, and loss of functional groups of carbohydrates, lignin, and proteins, at temperatures above 225 ºC. Interestingly, the results suggest that materials with a non-effective or incomplete composting process can be transformed by thermal treatment into more stable products, exhibiting similar agronomic characteristics as those have that undergone a more efficient biotransformation.