Multicomponent and continuous adsorption of neonicotinoid pesticides identified in the EU Watch Lists onto mesoporous and biogenic activated carbon The environmental impact of pesticides, together with the increasing regulatory framework on sewage sludge disposal, has raised a great political and social concern. Neonicotinoid pesticides, such as imidacloprid (IMD), thiamethoxam (THM), and acetamiprid (ACT), have been included among the main emerging pollutants on the latest EU Watch Lists derived from Directive 2008/105/EC. This research aims at valorising an industrial sludge through the synthesis of a biogenic activated carbon for the continuous adsorption of the aforementioned plaguicides from multicomponent aqueous solutions. AC-Industrial2 was prepared by combining chemical and physical activation, resulting in a mesoporous material with a high surface area (SBET = 750 m2∙g−1) and a strong affinity for the micropollutants tested. The sludge-derived adsorbent achieved maximum adsorption capacity values at equilibrium of 124.3, 124.4 and 153.1 mg∙g−1 for ACT, THM and IMD, respectively. Therefore, this material not only presented similar removal yields to those obtained with the commercial material (AC-F400), but also it considerably favoured the adsorption kinetics due to its great mesoporosity contribution. The best fitting of experimental kinetic data was found by using pseudo-first order model, while Freundlich model successfully fitted most of the equilibrium adsorption isotherms. The breakthrough behaviour of the multicomponent fixed-bed system for AC-Industrial2 was related to the pesticides' hydrophobicity, rather than the molecular volume of the pollutants. Additionally, an overshooting phenomenon was noticed for the weakest adsorbable components (THM and ACT). The sorbent developed in this work allowed a bed utilisation in the range 51–67.2 %, whereas the commercial material led to values between 7.0 and 8.3 %. This fact, together with the complete and efficient regeneration of the novel material by a Fenton process, highlighted its excellent reusability and stability for scale-up.