A comprehensive review on various techniques used for synthesizing nanoparticles Nature is still the main focus of scientific and technological research, particularly in nanotechnology and because of its remarkable properties; nanotechnology has acquired much interest in recent years. This review focuses on up-to-date overview of classification of nanoparticles, characterization, methods of preparation, characterization and application of nanoparticles. Initial section of the review gives insight on various techniques for the synthesis nanoparticles, encompassing both bottom-up and top-down approaches. Different methods for the synthesis of nanoparticles are discussed in details. Highlighting the importance of controlling shape, size, and composition to develop nanoparticles and enhance the properties of nanoparticles. These properties include enhanced surface area, unique optical, electronic, and magnetic characteristics, as well as improved mechanical properties. Understanding these attributes is essential for harnessing nanoparticles in different applications effectively. Broad spectrum of applications for nanoparticles is also discussed. Additionally, nanoparticles have found applications in catalysis, environmental remediation, and antimicrobial coatings, contributing to sustainable development and environmental protection. Overall, nanoparticles represent a progressive area of research with tremendous potential for innovation and societal impact. Our evaluation will serve as a solid reference, assisting the scientific community to comprehend the discussed topic better by showing the role of each technique in a comparable manner. As the field of nanoparticles is constantly evolving, this review incorporates the latest research, developments, and advancements up to the time of its publication. A comprehensive understanding of their properties, synthesis and applications is decisive for realizing the full potential of nanoparticles in various scientific and industrial domains.