Title: Co-pyrolysis of vancomycin fermentation residue and waste plastics: synergistic effects on pyrolysis behavior, product characteristics, and bio-oil quality enhancement
Abstract: The treatment of antibiotic fermentation residue (AFR) is a global environmental challenge due to its hazardous nature. Pyrolysis is a promising technique for harmless treatment of AFR, achieving simultaneous detoxification of waste and energy recovery. However, the pyrolysis of AFR is hindered by low hydrocarbon content and excessive generation of N/O-containing byproducts in the bio-oil. This study developed an innovative co-pyrolysis strategy for Vancomycin fermentation residue (VFR) with waste plastics, such as waste polyolefin plastics (polypropylene (PP), high-density polyethylene (HDPE), and low-density polyethylene (LDPE)), to synergistically enhance the quality of bio-oil through hydrogen supplementation while suppressing the generation of N/O-containing byproducts. The results showed that, compared to mono-pyrolysis of VFR, the co-pyrolysis increased the gas yields by 24.58 %, with the yields of CH4 and C2+ gases increasing by 42.96 % and 284.77 %, respectively. More importantly, the bio-oil yield increased by 34.97 % while drastically reducing the contents of oxygen (87.50 %) and nitrogen (83.41 %). In particular, HDPE demonstrated better enhancement in the quality of bio-oil, achieving 99.78 % and 85.93 % reductions in N- and O-containing compounds and elevating hydrocarbons to 96.76 % in light oil while increasing the average values of effective hydrogen/carbon ratio by 5.18 % for heavy oil. The added plastics significantly reduced the content of N/O-containing functional groups of the char. The mechanism analysis attributed the synergy to radical-mediated interactions where plastic-derived alkyl/hydrogen radicals inhibited Maillard reactions through hydrogen transfer and conversion of oxygen species, ultimately suppressing the formation of N-products. This study solves the problem of waste plastics treatment, and also provides a new way for the value-added utilization of AFR, which has significant environmental and economic significance.