Critical assessment of machine learning prediction of biomass pyrolysis Biomass pyrolysis is a complex process, quite challenging to model physically and Modern AI methods could improve its prediction and characterization. However, AI model construction requires high-quality datasets. Existing datasets in literature, usually only a few hundred records, are inadequate for robust AI applications. A first goal of the study was to make best use of the currently available body of experimental data on fixed bed non-catalytic biomass pyrolysis by comprehensively compiling available data from nearly 160 sources into a new dataset of 1137 records. Each record was carefully standardized to overcome inconsistencies in terminology and lack of uniformity among different sources. This extended dataset (including biomass properties, pyrolysis operating conditions, and bioliquid yield), integrating previous ones, is intended to promote community-based data sharing. The compiled dataset was characterized by remarkable data sparsity, due to lack of completeness of the original data. A second goal was benchmarking different regression and data imputation models to assess the predictive ability of ML applied to the collected dataset. The most accurate estimates were obtained by leveraging a subset of about 500 instances without missing values, resulting in a Mean Absolute Error (MAE) of 2.28. Application of ML to the entire dataset with imputed missing data yielded a less accurate estimate (MAE = 3.45), a feature that underlines the criticality of missing data imputation, and of the sparsity of the dataset. A third and mostly relevant goal was the critical assessment of Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) techniques that come into play when ML is aimed at evaluating the importance and directional trends of selected features. XAI tools, namely Partial Dependence Plots (PDP) and SHAP, have been applied to the dataset to assess their trustworthiness to support mechanistic inference of the importance and directional trends of key biomass properties and process operational parameters on pyrolysis yields. The result of this analysis is far from satisfactory. Significant discrepancies across studies, inconsistencies among different methods and somewhat erratic trends in PDP plots reflect the challenge in achieving consistent mechanistic insights from purely data-driven approaches, suggesting the adoption of physics-informed machine learning embodying physico-chemical relationships to improved Explainable AI.