Miscanthus x giganteus biochar: Effective adsorption of pharmaceuticals from model solution and hospital wastewater This study investigated the adsorption of pharmaceuticals, including atenolol (AT), 17-α-ethinylestradiol (EE2), and sulfamethoxazole (SMX), in model solutions and in the effluent from a hospital wastewater treatment plant. The pharmaceuticals were adsorbed on biochar prepared from Miscanthus x giganteus biomass obtained from the phytoremediation of contaminated or marginal soil. The feedstock was pyrolyzed at 360 °C (M-3) and 500 °C (M-5). The representation of functional groups, specific surface area, porosity, and pore volume were lower for M-5. Pore diameters were comparable, but their depth decreased for M-5. The specific surface area and porosity surface area of M-5 were 30 times higher after 4 h of shaking compared to properties without shaking. The biochar leachate pH was 9.8 ± 1.0 (M-3), and 11.1 ± 1.1 (M-5). No desorption of potentially risk organic compounds was detected. M-3 was generally a better adsorption material. The removal of EE2, AT and SMX was greater than 90%, 70% and 30 % respectively after 4 h in model waters. There was no evidence of a linear relationship between the sorption efficiency of pharmaceuticals and the biochar dose. Sorption experiments with real wastewater from a hospital wastewater treatment plant demonstrated high removal rates of monitored pharmaceuticals, including e.g. SMX (80%), trimethoprim (91%), venlafaxine (100%), clarithromycin (96%), tramadol (93%), diclofenac (86%). It was proven that the efficiency of the adsorption process is influenced not only by the dose or physico-chemical properties of the biochar, but also by the initial concentration of the pharmaceutical and its properties. The presence of other components of real wastewater, which can cause competitive sorption and overlapping of active centers on the surface of the biochar, also decreased the efficiency. The results demonstrate that both biochars are suitable for tertiary or quaternary water treatment for pharmaceutical removal. Due to the lower energetic, and therefore economic, costs of pyrolysis, a lower pyrolysis temperature can be preferred.