Co-pyrolytic valorization and synergistic interactions of waste tire and corn plant stalk: A detailed study on kinetics, thermodynamics attributes, drivers, and mechanistic pathways of pollutants reduction Waste tire (WT) pyrolysis is a well-known technique for the production of fuel, but the formation of pollutants such as PAHs, S-compounds and N-compounds is inevitable due to the existence of sulfur, nitrogen and several additives. The co-pyrolysis of waste tire with biomass can be a viable solution to inhibit the pollutants to mitigate environmental issues. Therefore, co-pyrolysis of waste tire and corn plant stalk (CPS) is performed in TG-MS and Py-GCMS to investigate the synergistic effect. The addition of CPS improved pyrolysis efficiency of WT which resulted in earlier decomposition temperature and reduction in residual from 35.44 wt% to 27.75 wt%. Kinetics and thermodynamic analysis revealed that the average activation energy of co-pyrolysis blends decreased from 83.9 kJ/mol to 46.3 kJ/mol and the addition of CPS avoid the activation complex. The peaks intensities of SO2 and H2S were highest compared to COS, CS2 and CH3SH in WT100 but NH3 and HNCO in CPS100 showed maximum peaks than HCN, NO. The peaks of 9 series of gaseous PAHs in WT100 were higher than CPS100. The blend ratios WT/CPS 2:2 and WT/CPS 1:3 reduced the emission of gaseous sulfur, nitrogen and PAHs compounds. The effect of final pyrolysis temperature and blend ratios in Py-GCMS analysis unveiled that co-pyrolysis maxing ratio WT/CPS 2:2 at 500 ℃ effectively minimized the phenolic, aldehydes, ketones, and acids which enhanced the fuel quality as well as lowered the benzene derivatives/ single ring aromatic hydrocarbons (SRAH) which are regarded as PAHs precursors. Furthermore, the difference between experimental and calculated yield confirms that the synergistic effect completely inhibited PAHs and decreased the N-compounds and S-compounds as well as increased the alkene and olefins. So, the results indicated that co-pyrolysis of WT with biomass can significantly restrain the pollutants and enhance the pyrolytic oil quality which can be used as an alternative environmental friendly fuel.