Maximizing olefin production via steam cracking of distilled pyrolysis oils from difficult-to-recycle municipal plastic waste and marine litter Plastic waste is steadily polluting oceans and environments. Even if collected, most waste is still predominantly incinerated for energy recovery at the cost of CO2. Chemical recycling can contribute to the transition towards a circular economy with pyrolysis combined with steam cracking being the favored recycling option for the time being. However, today, the high variety and contamination of real waste remains the biggest challenge. This is especially relevant for waste fractions which are difficult or even impossible to recycle mechanically such as highly mixed municipal plastic waste or marine litter. In this work, we studied the detailed composition and the steam cracking performance of distilled pyrolysis oil fractions in the naphtha-range of two highly relevant waste fractions: mixed municipal plastic waste (MPW) considered unsuitable for mechanical recycling and marine litter (ML) collected from the sea bottom. Advanced analytical techniques including comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography (GC × GC) coupled with various detectors and inductively coupled plasma – mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) were applied to characterize the feedstocks and to understand how their properties affect the steam cracking performance. Both waste-derived naphtha fractions were rich in olefins and aromatics (~70% in MPW naphtha and ~51% in ML naphtha) next to traces of nitrogen, oxygen, chlorine and metals. ICP-MS analyses showed that sodium, potassium, silicon and iron were the most crucial metals that should be removed in further upgrading steps. Steam cracking of the waste-derived naphtha fractions resulted in lower light olefin yields compared to fossil naphtha used as benchmark, due to secondary reactions of aromatics and olefins. Coke formation of ML naphtha was slightly increased compared to fossil naphtha (+ ~50%), while that of MPW naphtha was more than ~180% higher. It was concluded that mild upgrading of the waste-derived naphtha fractions or dilution with fossil feedstocks is sufficient to provide feedstocks suitable for industrial steam cracking.