Study of devolatilization during chemical looping combustion of large coal and biomass particles Chemical Looping Combustion (CLC) is one of the emerging technologies for carbon capture, with less energy penalty. The present way of using pulverized coals in a fluidized bed (FB)-CLC have limitations like loss of unconverted char and gaseous combustibles, which could be mitigated by use of coarser fuel particles. Devolatilization time is a critical input for the effective design of FB-CLC systems, primarily when large fuel particles are used. The present study investigates the devolatilization time and the char yield of three coals of two shapes, namely, two high ash Indian coals and a low ash Indonesian coal and a wood (Casuarina equisetifolia) in the size range of +8–25 mm, at different fuel reactor temperatures (800–950 °C) of a hematite based CLC unit. The devolatilization times of single fuel particles during CLC are determined using a visual method called ‘Color Indistinction Method’. Indonesian coal has the longest devolatilization time among the fuels, and biomass has the least. Increasing the bed temperature enhances the rate of volatile release, whereas this effect is less pronounced in larger particles. Devolatilization of Indonesian coal is found to be strongly influenced by the changes in operating conditions. With the decrease in sphericity, a maximum of 56% reduction in devolatilization time is observed for the +20–25 mm slender particles of Indonesian coals when compared to the near-round particles. The maximum average char yields at the end of the devolatilization phase for coal and biomass are about 55–76% and 16% respectively. Char yield in coal particles increases with an increase in particle size, whereas biomass particles show relatively consistent yield across all experimental conditions. Increase in bed temperature reduces the char yields of coal up to 12% and in biomass up to 30%. High volatile Indian coal is the most influenced fuel by the changes in fuels shape. A correlation for determining devolatilization time under CLC environment is presented, and it successfully fits most of the experimental values within ±20% deviation for coals (R2 = 0.95) and within ±15% deviation for biomass (R2 = 0.97).