Synergistic interactions between cellulose and plastics (PET, HDPE, and PS) during CO2 gasification-catalytic reforming on Ni/CeO2 nanorod catalyst CO2 gasification-reforming is a promising approach for the transformation of carbonaceous materials into CO-rich syngas. Within municipal solid waste and agricultural waste streams, plastics are commonly found intermixed with biomass waste. This study delves into the CO2 gasification-reforming of biomass (cellulose) and various plastics (PET, HDPE, and PS) using a self-built online weighing fixed bed reactor and a two-stage fixed bed reactor. During the gasification-reforming of cellulose-plastic mixtures without the catalyst, the experimental gas production rate of cellulose slightly decreased, with the peak of gas production migrating to a higher temperature range. This phenomenon can be attributed to the molten plastic adhering to the cellulose surface, which impeded heat and mass transfer essential for cellulose decomposition. Furthermore, the gas production from plastics was suppressed in the mixtures, likely due to the interference of cellulose char in the decomposition of plastics. The incorporation of 2%Ni/CeO2 catalysts not only augmented gas yields and production rates but also emphasized the synergistic interactions. For the cellulose-HDPE mixture, the total gas yield was reduced by 14.9 mmol gsample −1 relative to the theoretical value. Given that HDPE possessed the highest decomposition temperature, the synergistic interaction was predominantly driven by the inhibitive nature of cellulose char. In contrast, the total gas yields for cellulose-PET and cellulose-PS mixtures increased by 8.7 mmol gsample −1 and 13.3 mmol gsample −1, respectively. The free radicals emanating from cellulose could trigger the decomposition of volatile components from plastics. Concurrently, the decomposition products of plastic could serve as hydrogen donors to stabilize the volatiles of cellulose. The interactions primarily affect the volatiles and tar components of the mixtures. The catalysts amplified gas yields by facilitating the CO2 reforming of tar, therefore, the synergistic interaction became evident upon catalyst addition. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analyses of the tar also corroborated the described interaction mechanisms between cellulose and plastics. Thermogravimetric analysis of used catalysts indicated that the synergistic action between cellulose and plastic could effectively diminish coke deposition, thereby preventing swift catalyst deactivation.