Innovative bio-pyrolytic method for efficient biochar production from maize and pigeonpea stalks and their characterization Agricultural residues in excess of livestock fodder are garnering global attention and stern concerns owing to their accountable share in environmental hazards due to the lack of effective disposal mechanisms and indiscriminate burning. Recycling these residues for biochar production using pyrolysis is a cost-effective and locally feasible technique which offers a twin-prong solution addressing both climate and soil health issues. This research work compares a portable kiln prototype that is affordable and easy to use, with a muffle furnace at three distinct pyrolytic temperatures (400 °C, 500 °C, and 600 °C) to produce biochar from the stalks of maize and pigeonpea. The biochar properties were characterized using Electron Microscopy-Electron Dispersive X-ray (SEM-EDX), X-ray Diffraction (XRD), Fourier Transmission Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR), and Thermogravimetric Analysis (TGA). The findings indicate significant variations in biochar properties based on raw material source, pyrolytic method, and varied temperatures. Higher pyrolysis temperatures were found to reduce the amorphous organic phase and alter the ultrastructure of biochar, as evidenced by XRD analysis. SEM imaging showed macropores in oval and round shapes with crystalline deposits. The carbon content, as per EDX, decreased with increasing temperature, aligning with changes in functional groups. Edinburgh's stability test revealed that kiln biochar has more stable carbon content compared to biochar produced using muffle furnace and the stable carbon increased with the rise in temperature. A comparative analysis demonstrated that biochar quality at 400–500 °C in a muffle furnace was on par with that produced in the portable kiln at 400 °C. Therefore, considering the kiln's portability, efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and scalability, it is a promising decentralized method for biochar production, offering a cutting-edge solution for agricultural waste management and soil carbon enhancement.