Advanced oxidation processes in microreactors for water and wastewater treatment: Development, challenges, and opportunities The miniaturization of reaction processes by microreactors offers many significant advantages over the use of larger, conventional reactors. Microreactors’ interior structures exhibit comparatively higher surface area-to-volume ratios, which reduce reactant diffusion distances, enable faster and more efficient heat and mass transfer, and better control over process conditions. These advantages can be exploited to significantly enhance the performance of advanced oxidation processes (AOPs) commonly used for the removal of water pollutants. This comprehensive review of the rapidly emerging area of environmental microfluidics describes recent advances in the development and application of microreactors to AOPs for water and wastewater treatment. Consideration is given to the hydrodynamic properties, construction materials, fabrication techniques, designs, process features, and upscaling of microreactors used for AOPs. The use of microreactors for various AOP types, including photocatalytic, electrochemical, Fenton, ozonation, and plasma-phase processes, showcases how microfluidic technology enhances mass transfer, improves treatment efficiency, and decreases the consumption of energy and chemicals. Despite significant advancements of microreactor technology, organic pollutant degradation mechanisms that operate during microscale AOPs remain poorly understood. Moreover, limited throughput capacity of microreactor systems significantly restrains their industrial-scale applicability. Since large microreactor-inspired AOP systems are needed to meet the high-throughput requirements of the water treatment sector, scale-up strategies and recommendations are suggested as priority research opportunities. While microstructured reactor technology remains in an early stage of development, this work offers valuable insight for future research and development of AOPs in microreactors for environmental purposes.