Experimental investigation of fountain height in a shallow rectangular spouted bed using digital image analysis The formation of a fountain is a unique phenomenon of spouted beds, which plays a significant role in the reactor design as well as the physical and chemical efficiency of the whole system. The present work investigates the fountain height (Hf) behavior in a rectangular spouted bed (30.2 mm × 101.6 mm) using four different kinds of particles classified in both Geldart groups D (Nylon and Alumina) and B (Glass beads (GB) and High density polyethylene (HDPE)), which is intended as a gap-bridging attempt, given the fact that most of the published fountain height studies were conducted in the cylindrical bed geometry. First, with the determination of Hf by systematic image processing methods, the effects of different variables including, superficial gas velocity (Ug), nozzle size (Deqn), and initial static bed height (H0) on Hf of the Geldart D and B particles are addressed. Secondly, because of the intrinsic periodical behavior of the absolute fountain height (Hfa, i.e. the vertical distance between the fountain surface to the bed bottom), the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is applied to characterize the variation of the Hfa for the four particle types. The period of particles’ entry into the spout and the “residence time” of particles in the fountain region are proposed as two possible factors that affect the fountain frequency. Finally, correlations to predict the Hf for both Geldart D and B particles are developed respectively, based on the discussion of different influence factors and frequency analysis. The correlation developed for Geldart B particles indicates that the effect of the nozzle size (Di) can be neglected when the ratio of particle size (dp) to nozzle size (Di) is less than 0.1. The predicted values show good agreement with the experimental data in the present study. In addition, the employment of the equivalent cross-sectional area diameters of the nozzle and rectangular column, namely Di and Dc, ensures the potential extension of the application of the developed correlations to cylindrical spouted beds.