Computational and experimental approaches into molecular structure mechanism of ZQV coal and the COx gas releases during pyrolysis Understanding the structural features of coal and its reactive behaviors in thermal processing is the fundamental to achieve high-efficiency utilization of coal. However, the molecular structural features and the evolution characteristics at atomic scales in thermal processing remain unclear in the microscopic views, particularly for the low-rank coals, which usually exhibits high oxygen content with a variety of oxygen-containing organic functional groups and gets lots of CO/CO2 release during pyrolysis. This research provides a comprehensive analysis of the ZaoQuan vitrinite (ZQV) bituminous coal's structural attributes and its pyrolysis-induced reactivity, which is crucial for optimizing the thermal conversion of low-rank coals. The structural parameters characteristics and molecular structures of ZQV have been revealed based on series of materials characterizations and molecular modeling calculations. The single molecular description of ZQV was conceptualized to be C209H132O41N2 under the average molecular approximation, and the particle models with size about 10 nm was also been obtained. Based on the built molecular models, reactive force field molecular dynamics (ReaxFF MD) simulations then provided insights into the dynamic behavior of molecular structures under pyrolysis conditions. Experimental validation corroborates the computational predictions, revealing a strong coherence between observed gas products and those derived from simulation data. Crucially, this study vividly captures the dynamic migration patterns of oxygen-containing groups during coal's thermal decomposition, thus contributing to the understanding of gasification processes. The release mechanisms for CO and CO2 are systematically dissected, proposing three and two distinct pathways respectively. These findings not only consolidate the molecular narrative of coal's structure and pyrolysis reactivity but also serve as a reliable foundation for interpreting the COx evolution of low-rank coals. Our integrated approach propels the scientific comprehension of coal pyrolysis and is anticipated to inform the development of more effective coal utilization pathways and thermal treatment technologies.