Thermal decomposition mechanisms of m-nitrotoluene and p-nitrotoluene under low-pressure conditions Nitroaromatics are a class of hazardous chemicals that pose significant safety risks during storage, transportation, and usage due to their flammability nature. Reliable prediction of fundamental combustion parameters such as burning velocity relies on accurate reaction mechanisms of nitroaromatics combustion. The present study examines the pyrolysis of two prototype nitroaromatic compounds, m-nitrotoluene and p-nitrotoluene, in a flow reactor under low-pressure conditions with the temperature ranging from 650 to 1050 K. Dozens of intermediates and products were detected for the first time in our pyrolysis experiments using synchrotron vacuum ultraviolet photoionization mass spectrometry. New species were observed including NO2, hydrogen cyanide (HCN), isocyanic acid (HNCO), acetonitrile (CH3CN), carbon monoxide, acetylene, propyne, vinylacetylene, 1,3-cyclopentadiene, benzene and methylphenols. Quantum chemical calculations were performed to elucidate the possible decomposition pathways of m-nitrotoluene and p-nitrotoluene with the CCSD(T)-F12A/cc-pVTZ-F12//M06-2X/def2-TZVP methods. Reaction kinetic simulations were performed to calculate the rate coefficients over a wide temperature and pressure range. The CNO2 bond cleavage and nitro-nitrite isomerization followed by instantaneous NO elimination were identified as the most important primary decomposition pathways of m- and p-nitrotoluene. Subsequent reactions of key radicals generated in the initial decomposition, CH3C6H4• and CH3C6H4O•, can further dissociate into various smaller fragments, with C2–C6 unsaturated hydrocarbons and CO being the most dominant. Small nitrogen-containing molecules and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were also detected in the experiments and their possible formation pathways were proposed. The thermal decomposition mechanisms elucidated in this work provide an important foundation for future development of highly predictive combustion kinetic models of nitroaromatic compounds.