Experimental demonstration of the application of packed bed chemical looping (unmixed) combustion for generating hot liquid utility streams The objective of this work is to experimentally demonstrate the application of packed bed chemical looping (unmixed) combustion (PBCLC/UMC) as a potential and effective alternative to premixed combustion for heating liquids. Hot liquids like water, thermic fluids and oil are typically used as hot utility streams apart from steam in many industries. The existing premixed combustion process has issues like NOX formation, difficulty in CO2 separation and requirement of high temperature which can be addressed by replacing it with PBCLC. In PBCLC, the fuel and air react cyclically with oxygen storage and release material (OSRM) loaded in the packed bed reactor (PBR), releasing heat and producing pure CO2. In earlier studies, the application of PBCLC for heating air was successfully demonstrated but this system was incompatible with heating liquids as maintaining desired temperatures in the bed was not possible for all feasible conditions. Recent literature related to modifying the design of such systems and corresponding modeling studies has theoretically confirmed the possibility of developing a feasible PBCLC based liquid heating system. With this as a basis, PBCLC based experimental test rig for heating water as a representative liquid was designed and fabricated. Experimental studies were carried out using Cu based OSRM for heating water flowing in the laminar range. The results showed that for the considered cases, 68–76 % of the heat generated in the bed could be radially transferred continuously while having bed temperatures within the desired range (>823 K), which confirms its feasible operation. The practical ranges of the operating parameters were determined. The OSRM and reactor material were found to be thermally and mechanically stable for more than 500 h of continuous operation. Coke formation was not an issue. These results thus form a strong basis for designing and developing pilot/industrial scale PBCLC based liquid heating (hot utility) or steam boiler systems.