The chlorine migration routes and transformation mechanism during the co-pyrolysis of polyvinyl chloride and low-rank coal In the thermal conversion of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) and carbon-containing resources, chlorine has seriously harmed environmental safety, human health and chemical equipment. However, present studies do not have a consistent understanding on the relationship between chlorine release, chlorine distribution and changes in chlorine morphology. In this work, the chlorine migration characteristics during the co-pyrolysis of PVC and low-rank coals were studied by fixed bed pyrolysis experiment, thermogravimetric-mass spectrometer (TG-MS) and in situ pyrolysis time of flight mass spectrometry (Py-TOF-MS), and the distribution and release behavior of chlorine in each product was investigated by changing the pyrolysis temperatures, mixing ratios and coal types. The results showed that the co-pyrolysis process inhibited the release of HCl and chlorine migrated from HCl to char and co-pyrolysis water during the co-pyrolysis process. The co-pyrolysis water influenced the release and migration of chlorine in different aspects. At the later stage (around 410–550 °C) of co-pyrolysis, the relatively stable Car-Cl bond broke and formed HCl. In addition, the chlorine fixing capacity of minerals in low-rank coals was depended on the species and quantity of minerals that react with HCl directly, and their chlorine fixing capacity reached the upper limit when the mixing ratio was 8:2. Variations of other compounds (containing N, S) also affected the chlorination reactions. The relationship between chlorine distribution, chlorine release, chlorine transformation, and external conditions during co-pyrolysis was established and the targeted regulation of chlorine was proposed based on the above conclusions. Hence the migration mechanism of chlorine provided guidance for the clean and efficient utilization of waste plastics and low-rank coal and the regulation of chlorine.