Figure 1 shows some un- usually large masses of deposited carbon having a typical macroscopic columnar structure.
A 900°C coke (see Table 1) prepared from a low-ash Stockton No.
Table 2 gives the ash analysis of the coal from which this coke had been prepared.
TAYLOR TABLE l.
basis (% '/'" (%) Moisture 0-2 — — Ash 0-4 0-4 — Volatile matter 0-9 0-9 0-9 Fixed carbon 98-5 98-7 99-1 TABLE 2.
It formed layers on the contact material, both externally and on the sur- faces of some vesicles within contact coke lumps (Fig.
and occasionally of even greater thickness (Fig.
The typical form of PC deposits was that of layers which are continuous on a surface but varied in thickness with the conical structure of the deposit (Fig.
Some sections through larger cones within the thicker PC deposits, especially those formed at comparatively high temperatures, contained dis- continuous circumferential cracks (Fig.
The structure was typically FIG.
FIG.
194 FIG.
FIG.
FIG.
FIG.
- • .„^•,.;t FIG.
FIG.
FIG.
CARBONS OBTAINED BY THERMAL AND CATALYTIC CRACKING OF COAL TARS 195 that of aggregates of spheres varying from micron size to 10-20 /i in diameter (Fig.
they coalesced to form 'welded' aggregates (Fig.
The spheres are strongly optically anisotropic and have a concentric structure as indicated by the sense in which plane-polarized light is absorbed, and by the stationary extinction cross observed with crossed niçois when the microscope stage is rotated (Fig.
Some SPC spheres and aggregates were deposited on PC and later enclosed by further deposits of PC (Fig.
There were also transitions between the two types of sphere, where the core (a few microns across) was isotropic, with a transition to an outer rim which was as strongly anisotropic as normal SPC (Fig.
Evidently after deposition it shrank to form cracks, some of which were later infilled with PC (Fig.
It had a well- defined mosaic structure, much coarser than that of the coke used as contact material (Fig.
Occasional sub-spherical grains of PtC having radial structure were presumably formed by rapid carbonization of individual droplets of residual pitch (Fig.
4,7 Temperature of cracking The main effect of raising the temperature of cracking from 500 to 1000°C was to increase sharply the total yield of carbon (from 3-10 per cent at 500°C to over 60 per cent at 1000°C) (Table 3).
-1.2 Contact time of cracking A comparison of results obtained: for carbons at the same temperature but at different contact times (Table 3) showed that at low temperatures (between 500 and 700°C) only the formation of PtC was significantly affected by the contact time of cracking, in that more pitch coke was obtained at long contact times.
4.3 Tar composition The composition of carbon samples obtained from two typical tars—a gasworks vertical-retort tar and a low-temperature fluidized-bed tar—at relatively long contact times in the temperature range 500-1000°C are summarized in Table 4.
4.4 Catalysts The addition of iron and zinc catalysts to the contact material used in some runs promoted the formation of 1C, especially at 900-1000°C (Table 5).
4.5 Steam addition As indicated in Table 6, when 8-32 per cent of steam was added to the vertical-retort tar prior to cracking the total yield of carbon generally increased (except at 32 per cent steam addition at 1000°C, where the water-gas reaction became intensive).
4.6 Oxygen addition The effect of adding 1-12 per cent oxygen to the vertical-retort tar was to raise the yield of carbon, TABLE 5.
+For explanation of occurrence of carbon types see Table 3.
l^j^ l?jbä^fe g-3 -»...SJS S" ^ .ff " o •S K " a s» .«; 0 i-iUt'i&i aacLia, CARBONS OBTAINED BY THERMAL AND CATALYTIC CRACKING OF COAL TARS 199 particularly at low temperatures (Table 7).
