Table 1 shows the elemental analy- Table 1 l.
As seen from the table, even in two hours of heating of the fibers in the presence of air, the oxygen content in the fiber increases from about 4% to about 22%.
As evident from Fig.
Therefore all the fibers Fig.
The results are compiled in Table 2.
As seen from the table, the concentration ofhydroxyl groups is higher than other groups.
Figure 2 shows typical weight loss and linear shrinkage during pyrolysis of phenolic resin and oxidised PAN fiber (oxidised for 2 hours) as plotted by a Mettler Thermoanalysis system TA 40.
As seen from Fig.
Cured phenolic resin also exhibit weight loss 200 WO 600 Temperature, C Fig.
Figure 3 is the plot for weight loss and dimensional changes during pyrolysis of the unidirectional poly- mer composites reinforced with 2 hours stabilized fibers.
As seen from the figure, the weight loss pattern of the composite follows the weight loss pattern exhibited by individual components, although the total weight loss of the composites at any particular temperature is lower than the theoretical one calculated on the basis of addition of the individual weight losses suffered by the two components at that temperature.
As seen from Fig.
In the direction perpendicular to the reinforcements, shrinkage in the composites is twice Table 2.
200 400 600 Temperature, °C 800 1000 Fig.
This is seen from Fig.
if it is too fast, the Temperature (°C) Fig.
Figure 5 shows the optical micrograph of the polymer composites.
During pyrolysis, though the fiber and matrix both undergo chemical reactions with evolution of byproducts and get carbonized, the fiber matrix bond- ing is maintained and both fibers and matrix are easily distinguishable (Fig.
Moreover, the shrinkage cracks observed in polymer composites appeared to have Development of carbon/carbon composites by co-carbonization of phenolic resin and oxidised PAN fibers 845 (a) Fig.
Furthermore, the development of a distinct anisotropy at the fiber matrix interface is observed (Fig.
Comparison of the observations made with the two carbonized composites exhibited a higher extent of this anisotropy in composites made with oxidised PAN fibers (Fig.
6 (a)) as compared to in those made with carbon fibers (Fig.
On heat treatment of the composites to 2800°C, the anisotropic structure in matrix gets enhanced (Fig.
Even the bulk carbon matrix in the interfiber tow region is observed to have developed good anisotropic structure (Fig.
Figure 8 shows the SEM micrographs of carbonized composites.
As is evident from this figure, carbonized composites are observed to be quite compact, with strong bonding between fibers and matrix and the presence of few macro as well as micro cracks.
Distinct fibers and matrix are identifiable in Fig.
This is evident from Fig.
Fig.
3.3.3 X-ray diffraction studies on composites Figure 10 shows X-ray diffractograms of the car- bonized and graphitized composites taken using Rigaku X-ray diffractometer.
Flexural strength of polymer composites, carbonized and graphitized composites are plotted in Fig.
Load-deflection diagrams of these composites are plotted in Fig.
Combination of all Development of carbon/carbon composites by co-carbonization of phenolic resin and oxidised PAN fibers 847 Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
)50- / / / Fig.
Deflection Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
)50- / / / Fig.
Deflection Fig.
