The reaction scheme in Table 1 is designed to represent the reactor data of Hettinger et al.
A detailed Langmuir-llinshelwood-Hougen-Watson kinetic model is given io Table 1, based on the carbenium intermediate scheme postulated above.
Table 1.
STEWAJtT Al4 REACTOR SIMULATION AND PARAMETER ESTIMATION The forward rate coefficients k3(T) and equilibrium coefficients K (T) in Table 1 are represented by the Arrhenius and van t Hoff equations, respectively; the temperature dependence of the adsorption coefficients is neglected.
A representative calculation is shown in Fig.
Fig.
These data were extracted from Tables I and V of [10] and from related records with the assistance of present ARCO staff.
0.00 0.04 0.08 0.12 0.16 0.20 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 Axial coordinate, i/WHSV Radial position, r/R Fig.
Predicted yield profiles for Fig.
Intraparticle partial pressure heptane reforming over fresh RD-iso profiles calculated from the final model extrudate at 925 F, 200 psig, 5/1 H, at the reactor inlet conditions of Fig.
A 14 Catalyst particle modelling in fixed-bed reactors 2159 COMPARISONS OF RESULTS Results are given in Table 2 for four reactor models: two based on the kinetics of Krane et al.
[12], and two based on Table 1.
The Krane model conforms to Table I except that it uses bulk fluid states, and power functions of p rather than the adsorption function r.
The full model in Table 1 proved to be overparametrized for the present data set, but the function r converged rapidly to unity when modelled with a single adsorption term; therefore, results are given only for the version with r = 1.
Each model in Table 2 was coded with 12 chemical parameters.
The twelfth parameter for the LHHW model (Table 1) was in Kp5~(T5); it converged to the specified lower limit of 20.0, indicating a very small degree of acid-site coverage, and therefore is not shown.
The mode and 95%-probability interval are shown in the table for each parameter that proved to be estimable from the data.
The results in Table 2 are interpreted as follows: 1.
The data are best fitted by the heterogeneous reactor model with the kinetics of Table 1.
Inclusion of the transport corrections improves the fIt of the data substantially for the model of Table 1, as shown by the 5(6) values.
It fits the available data very well, as shown in Figs.
Table 2.
Parameter Estimates for Selected Models Best Model: Kinetic model Krasse [12] Krasse [12] Table I Table 1 Transport model Pseudohomog.
percent Fig.
Predicted yields compared with Fig.
percent Fig.
Predicted yields compared with Fig.
