This first principles approach can be secen as continuing the trend of developing intelligent systems which possess greater flexibility by basing them on more fundamental (deeper) knowledge as shown in Fig.
UNGAR FEURIS11C APP~cH MCCE~AsEDAPPmAcH RRST PRINCIPLES APP~ACH Fig.
The troubleshooting system uses a generate-and-test strategy which includes identifying assumption changes which could account for a single discrepancy, determining the resultant changes in the model, PARAMEt~~~l FIRST PRINCIPLES DESCIIPTIONCF LINrr 4r G9~A1E CAICCATE AS&~ CI4SNESS + I LERSRYOF ~R EACH CAND~nSTE, Ra~CC~ liST WITh I~S1OIRDAS$LP.IPTIO~RI 4r I OQ4PARE NCDRI~SiO I~T~E IN B~4AVI0R GQARWIE ~B~CTB~ rsw~Eswn~cesEmw DISCREPANCIES Fig.
simulating the effect of these changes on the unit behavior and comparing the result against the observed discrepancies to test whether the hypoth- esized assumption changes are consistent with all observations (see Fig.
For example, Fig.
For example, consider the process heat- transfer shown in Fig.
(mf 7.2 (2-c-I-p 1.1 7.2 ?c)) (mf 901 (2.c-i-p 7.1 712 Ic)) (Qpiop (thoil (2-c-i-p 7.19.290)) (mf 7,1 (2-c-i-p 7.1 1,2 ?c)) Fig.
Building and solving models Conceptually, QPT builds and solves models as follows: Given the objects and conditions present and the parameter ordering relations, (a) identify all active processes and individual views; (b) build the associated qualitative model using the influence and Qprop relations specified in the active processes and views; Ito ,contsinre ?dst a containtr tbeat.amneclad ?.iv ld,t) (gxanse-than (re.~e.Inue lIre) (tamperatree ldat)) (Q~aop beat-unnafre-eate (tempreature lto)) (Qisop- beax-nans~r-raat (~pa5bue ?dst)) (1+ (heat ?dst) heat-tranzfbr-ratc) (I - (heat Ito) heat-Wansftr-ratc) Fig.
An example Consider the uni-molecular, liquid phase, exother- mic batch reactor shown in Fig.
UNGAR Fig.
The system determines that the following processes and views are active, in addition to heat-transfer: (VII (2-Component-liquid (2-c-I-p A B tank))) (V12 (Container tank)) (V13 (Container pipe)) (P12 (Reaction(2.c-l-p A B tank))) The associated qualitative model consists of the collection of the constraints contributed by each of the processes and views: VII contributes: A graphical analog of the model is shown in Fig.
Temp vessel pipe k mf B in Thubble Reaction Heat Tnanafer iiquid liquid rate rate lntluonoe Relation Ksy: Oprop Reiation r~/o Sign of relation A Relation contributed by process Reaction HI Relation contributed by procees Heat Transfer 2CL Relation contributed by view Two Component Liquid C Relation contributed by view Container Fig.
So the system would specify that water being in the tank is a possible change even if it couldn t figure out where the water may have come from.
Figure 7 shows a flow-graph for the generation and ordering of candidates.
For example, consider the two situations shown in Fig.
Figure 9 shows the model for the original situation together with the relations which have to be added to model the second situa- tion.
This sole direct per- turbation then propagates through the model to give the following perturbation in variable derivates: (heat pipe) (heat tank) (amount-of A(2-c-I-p A B tank)) (amount-of B(2-c-l-p A B tank)) (mfA(2-c- 1-p A B tank)) (mf B(2-c-l-p A B tank)) (temperature tank) (temperature pipe) (t boil (2-c-I-p A B tank)) Reaction-rate Heat-transfer-rate Direction of perturbation of Variable derivative OLD SmJATION NEW SflUAT1ON Fig.
vessel pipe /~%/ Reaction Heal Transfer rate rate Relations added to old model to create new one Fig.
CASE STUDY Consider, once again, the batch reactor of Fig.
