Fig.
Fig.
The oxidations are also evaluated from the dependence of AOz on this value (see, for example, Fig.
3.2 N-oxy radicals of piperidine derivatives In the presence of MPthe HL oxidation proceeded from its beginning either as a chain reaction or at a rate equal to the rate of initiation, depending on the concentration of AO (Figs 1 and 2; Tables 1 and 2).
Oxygen consumptions from Fig; 1 as a function of the amount of initiating radicals 2(mmolkg-1); for symbols see Fig.
up = 0, the only product found in HL oxidation was AI (Table 3).
to the number of oxidation chains (Table 3).
In contrast to the course of bimolecular termination (eqn (4a)), the products of HL oxidation in the presence of MPdid not contain any HzO; and the termination of radicals LOO was first-order (Fig.
The ratio of reacting LOO to MPwas unity (Fig.
The propagation reaction of the chain HL oxidation does not proceed in the presence of MPif (12a-l) Table 1.
The rates v(p.mol kg"1 s~1) and kinetic chain lengths v in different stages of initiated oxidation of 6-hexanelactam inhibited with 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4- hydroxypiperidine-1-oxyl ([MP,,, mmol kg"1) at 98 [MPO]^o 'v ^o \ Vo v 3 4 10 40 90 21.5 16.9 7.2 2.4 2.4 7.9 6.0 2.0 0 0 23.0 17.6 9.6 4.8 8.6 6.3 3.0 1.0 26.2 9.9 26.2 9.9 Table 2.
The experimental results (Figs 2 and 4) correspond to this conclusion.
However, the rate of oxidation does not increase proportionally to this decrease (Figs 1 and 2).
At the beginning of that stage, the oxidation rate increases gradually up to the second steady state with the rate ^o and then up to the rate of the initiated oxidation of neat HL, Vy (Table 1).
This rate is attained, at the starting MPconcentra- tions of 3 and 4 mmol kg"1, as soon as 9 and 12 oxidation chains, respectively, have been comp- leted (Fig.
In the second steady-state stage, with the rate ^o, the dependence of propagation rate on the MP concentration reveals that the oxidation product [MP..] reacts with two LOO radicals (Fig.
As in this stage no HzOz was present in the oxidation products (within the accuracy limits Table 3.
The oxidation rate then attains the value Vo for the initiated oxidation of neat HL as soon as all MPhas been m the form of [MP..3] (Fig.
The reaction of one MPmolecule with three LOO radicals may Fig.
[AO]'(, , kg-mol-' Fig.
give, besides three molecules of AI and three molecules of H;>0, a compound of the structure Fig.
Lsk The course of the initiated HL oxidations carried out in the presence of phenolic antioxidants (HOP) is shown in Figs 5-7.
The effect of the initial concentration HOP on the HL oxidation at a given v, can be seen in Fig.
5, the effect of temperature at given initial HOP concentration and u; in Fig.
The oxidation rates (Tables 4-6) were evaluated from the initial reaction stages where the rate of oxygen consumption is constant.
At [HOP]o=4 and lOmmolkg"1, this rate was attained as soon as 8 and 20 oxidation chains, respectively, had reacted (Fig.
with the propagation rate zero), yielded equimolar amounts of HPHL and AI, the molar sum of Fig.
Fig.
Oxygen consumption AO:, (mmolkg 1) from Figs 5 and 6 as a function of the amount of initiating radicals 2 (mmolkg'1); for symbols see Figs 5 and 6.
which was equal to the oxygen consumption and the amount of initiating radicals 2(Table 7).
The molar sum of these two products was equal to oxygen consumption (Table 7).
As the reaction products from the HOP- inhibited HL oxidation did not contain HzOz and the termination of LOO was first order (Fig.
The relationship between the propagation rate ^p and the initial HOP concentration (Fig.
It can be suggested from the above results that the following inhibition reactions occur: LOO + HOP -^ HPHL + OP (5b-l) LOO + OP -AI + [...] (5b-2) Table 4.
Stabilization of polyamidesI 105 Tables.
The values of inhibition rate constants k^ were calculated (Table 6), using the known values of kp (Refs 9 and 10).
Table 7.
Lsk Fig.
of HL oxidation in their presence are shown in Figs 8-10.
For a given temperature and initiation rate, the course of HL oxidation depended on the concentration of AO added (Fig.
Fig.
Fig.
Oxygen consumption AO;, (mmol kg 1) from Figs 8 and 9 as a function of the amount of initiating radicals 21 (mmol kg-1); for symbols see Figs 8 and 9.
with the propagation rate zero), from the very beginning (Table 8).
These initial rates are operative up to the degree of HL reaction corresponding to the four-fold molar amount of AO added (Fig.
The reactions proceeding with the rate v, yielded equimolar amounts of HPHL and AI, whereas the products of the chain oxidations contained more HPHL (Table 9).
In the first stage of oxidation, it held for HPHL and AI that: [AI] + [HPHL] - AOz [AI] = 0.52l [HPHL] = (0.5 + ^S The oxidation products did not contain HaOz and the termination of LOO was first-order (Table 10 and Fig.
Obviously, the occurrence of the termination reaction (eqn (4a)) can be excluded at this stage of oxidation and one PNHP molecule reacted most probably with four LOO radicals (Figs 10 and 4).
Hence, the results (Tables 8 and 10; Figs 3 and 4) give the value of Table 9.
The product [PN(0)P...OH] of the reaction (eqn (5c-4)) is obviously able to react with LOO and the oxidation eventually reaches another stage with linear oxygen consumption and oxidation rate ^o (Figs 8-10; Tables 8 and 10).
Also in this stage, the termination of LOO is first-order and the oxidation products did not contain HzO (Table 10; Fig.
The correlation between Vp and [A0]o05 remains valid thus proving that one [PN(0)P...OH] reacts with more than one LOO (Fig.
In this stage of oxidation, adipimide is most probably the only product of inhibition reactions and its concentration in- creases above the value of 0.52 In the oxidation Table 10.
the rate of initiated oxidation of neat HL (Fig.
Hence, the value of fc,n = 0.6 X 104 kg mol"1 s"1 was obtained from the results (Table 10; Fig.
This is at variance with the obtained results (Table 9).
4 CONCLUSIONS The termination of LOO, peroxy radicals of HL, formed in the initiated HL oxidation at about 100 under the conditions where the reaction rate is not controlled by diffusion of oxygen, proceeds, in the presence of phenolic anti- oxidants, secondary aromatic amines and piperi- dine nitroxy radicals, as a first-order reaction (Fig.
