Figure 1 schematically illustrates this process.
The questions numbered 1-12 in Figure 1, however, state some 'new issues'.
r~o~d d~oloyn~nt of end use.matched renewable source ;, and transitional fosstl fuel technologies may be able to eva~/e many of the structural problems of traditional D~Icg t Such "soft energy paths deserve ~rtous national and regional study, and prebminary re~/ts from stuthe~ aft~dy done m many ECE c~mtrtes Imatn/y unofflcra/IyJ tend to conftrm this t~romt~e Figure 1.
These and similar considerations, which are becoming prominent and even dominant in energy discussions in some countries, have been analysed elsewhere.3 This paper, while not attempting to repeat that analysis, will summarize some salient arguments relevant to questions 7-l0 in Figure 1: diseconomies of scale, capital intensity, rate and mag- nitude problems and the system efficiency of central electrification.
Taylor4 and myselP suggest an alternative argument, which is shown in Figure 1 in italics.
An early attempt at such a calculation is summarized in Tables 1 and 2.22 Table 1 shows illustrative capital costs for complete energy systems to deliver marginal energy to consumers, in specified forms, at a rate of 67.1 kWt, equivalent to one barrel of oil per day, and at a rate of 1 kWt.
Table 2 overcomes this difficulty by using the capital-cost data base of Table 1, plus other stated assumptions, to calculate the delivered price per ENERGY POLICY September 1979 181 Re examining the nature of the ECE energy problem Table 1.
This is instead done in Table 2.
Capital investments from Table 1 converted to capital component of energy prices at 0.12/year fixed charge rate, which is high (thus unfavourable to renewables) for the constant-dollar accounting used here and for US utility tax structure.
e Aggregation of categories in Table 1; most values are well below the maximum.
f See notes for this entry in Table 1.
Lower value assumes free furnace and pipeline; higher value assumes marginal Table 2.
k Fuel-cycle, O&M, and taxes for station and O&M for transmission and distribution assumed 7.2, 1.5, 0.4, and 6.0 x 10-3 S/kWh respectively; resulting electricity price of $O.063/kWh delivered is conservative (see Table 1, note c).
Two conclusions immediately apparent from Table 2 are that increasing end-use efficiency by diluting, modifying, or replacing energy-using capital stocks is cheaper than virtually any marginal supply, and that most marginal supply is significantly more costly than historic supply (even in Europe, though those data are not shown because of wide variance and limited space).
This reinforces the case for strong measures to improve end-use efficiency and so reduce the need for marginal supply.23 Table 1 shows that central-electric systems, on an enthalpic or heat-supplied basis, are about a factor of ten more capital-intensive than frontier oil and gas or synthetic fuels, and about a hundred times more capital-intensive than the traditional direct-fuel technologies on which the ECE economies have been built.
The cost and performance data used in Tables 1 and 2 for renewable sources are empirical data from operating devices27 and do not assume any technical breakthroughs.
Bearing these points in mind, it appears from Tables 1 and 2 that central-electric and, in most cases, synthetic-fuel systems are substantially more expensive both in capital cost and in delivered energy price than presently available renewable sources for performing the same end-use functions, even in Northern European conditions.
This is an asymmetrical comparison, for it expects, for example, solar heat to meet an economic criterion which, according to Table 2, synthetic fuels and nuclear power fail to meet by a wider margin.
For example, Table 2 implies that a heat pump (powered by a marginal nuclear station) which is 250% efficient on the coldest winter day (better performance than is liable to be practicably achievable) can compete with fuel oil delivered to a 70%- efficient furnace at a price of $30/bbl, and clearly such a system should not be built at 1978-79 prices (roughly half that level).
Table 2 suggests that appropriate renewable sources, while they may or may not be cheaper than present fuels, are substantially cheaper than not building them.
End-use structure The substantial difference in cost between electrical and non-electrical means of supplying many end-use functions (Table 2) suggests that it is important to examine the thermodynamic structure of those functions in the ECE economies.
Using these data in the approximatory spirit of experimental physics, without pretending to any statistical exactitude, yields the data shown in Table 3.
These end-use data, from ten countries using 63% of ECE final energy, suggest that: The predominant ECE energy needs are for heat, especially at low temperatures - an end-use function that, according to Table 2, cannot in general be economically met at the margin by electricity or synthetic fuels.
Thus the portion of electricity used for heat ranges from about 4% (Denmark) to nearly 50% (USA and ENERGY POLICY September 1979 185 Re-examining the nature of the ECE energy problem Table 3.
The second significant figure is not reliable.
Interpretation of the table should thus take account of the tendency of the social utility of a unit of energy to depend sensitively and in detail on its form and on its method of use.
In support of this suggestion, it is interesting to note the evolution of some calculated end-use structures for several ECE countries, expressing them in terms of the five percentage categories given in the right-hand half of Table 3.
As the above examples and Table 4 illustrate, present technologies worth using at present OPEC prices can generally at least double Western European end-use efficiencies, and in the view of many students of these matters can do so at least as quickly as secular growth in economic activity, thus leading to stable or declining energy use in an expanding economy.
In the longer run, 188 ENERGY POLICY September 1979 Re-examining the nature of the ECE energy problem Table 4.
These account also for the primary energy discrepancy between Tables 3 and 4.
See Table 4, data source 10.
Results of recent studies for eight ECE countries By way of example, Table 4 summarizes the results of some recent studies of long-term efficiency improvements in eight ECE countries, including several now noted for relatively good technical coefficients in major sectors.
Exercises of the kind summarized in Table 4, though no more than a beginning, are accordingly a salutary reminder that over such long periods extrapolative methods of forecasting energy demand are likely to be ENERGY POLICY September 1979 191 Re-examining the nature of the ECE energy problem inferior to explicit engineering analysis that tries to construct plausible energy futures 'from the bottom up'.53 Nor are the periods considered too far in the future to be relevant to present policy: the year 2025 is about the retirement date of a major energy facility ordered today.
Demand projection for the ECE region Most of the studies noted in Table 4 are far from definitive.
Moreover, if the similarity of the end-use structure of the ten ECE countries analysed in Table 3 to that of present-day France is taken as a basis for extrapolation to 2025 - rather a generous assumption - then the 192 ENERGY POLICY September 1979 54 A.B.
(More detailed efficiency analysis yields a lower figure.) The 1975 ECE hydroelectric production could contribute 40% of this level (about 90% in North America - assuming the planned 1985 macro-hydro capacity except James Bay, plus the readily available US micro-hydro capacity - and over 100% in Scandinavia and some other parts of Europe).
These two types of cost reduction are among the reasons for the economic advantages shown in Table 2 for certain relatively dispersed renewable sources that supply heat and fluid-fuel needs directly rather than via electricity.
67 See, for example, data sources 1 a, 3, 4, 5, 7b and 8 of Table 4.
Some policy aspects of alternative energy supply Table 1 suggests that renewable energy sources matched in scale and in energy quality to end-use needs are generally lower in capital cost than competing central-electric and synthetic-fuel systems (an advantage increased in practice by the renewable sources' much more favourable cash-flow,6arising from short construction time and lack of fuel payments during amortization).
Table 2 suggests that renewable sources can produce substantially cheaper delivered end- use energy than the other long-run marginal sources whose installation has already begun.6~ (Some renewables are even cheaper than present fuels: eg neighbourhood seasonal-storage solar space heating appears cheaper than heating with 1976 ($8/barrel crude) oil in Canada.62) Table 3 shows that the kinds of energy that current appropriate renewables mainly supply - heat (especially at modest temperatures) and fluid fuels - are the dominant terms in ECE energy needs and the only end-use terms not already saturated - in addition to being the main uses of dwindling oil and gas.
Table 4 and its accompar~ying references show that renewable sources' contributions to ECE energy supply could be larger than traditionally projected because end-use efficiency can be improved enough to stabilize and even reduce total energy requirements for a growing economy, so enhancing the relative importance of even a small source of new supply.
Much literature also suggests that a soft energy path can bypass the problems of political economy which various authors have linked to the 'traditional view' in Figure 1, such as stagflation in at least the market economies,83 international fiscal and political instabilities,84 and domestic sociopolitical problems in both decisions8~ and implementation86 - considerations which, according to consultations at ministerial and prime ministerial level in several ECE countries, may be viewed as decisive by political leaders.
