Some Experimental Characteristics of Smolder Propagation Table 1 is a brief summary of the smolder behavior observed for a variety of fuels in several con- figurations.
(The forward/reverse terminology in Table 1 is explained below.) Cellulosic materials show up most frequently in Table I because they are so common and nearly all of them smolder.
The various results in Table 1 generally support the description of smoldering as a slow, low temperature combustion phenomenon that responds with increased vigor when the oxygen supply is enhanced.
Figure 1 gives a detailed view of the structure of a smolder wave in a fairly typical configuration, i.e.
The general model is re-cast in dimension- TABLE 1.
Finally, the smolder models in the literature are examined in the light of these considerations: the existing models will be seen to fall well short of adequately describing realistic smolder propagation problems such as that in Figure 1.
~ ~ ~ _ U.& --"" 0~0~~ 040 20 20 40 50 I10 79 RELATIVE OISTICE Icm) FIG.I.
As seen from Table 1, the fuel bed frequently consists of a large array of fuel particles*: their flow permeability is typically much less than that of the fuel bed itself.
The familiar zone concepts for single particle gasification are then pertinentfl2"T5-~2 Zone 1 (Fig.
/ / / ,, I rp ~-- ZONE Ii -I Co 1 ZONE Ul FIG.
In the present smolder problem, there is the further complication that the oxygen concentration and gas temperature around the exterior of indivi- dual fuel particles is varying as the overall smolder wave moves through the array of fuel particles (see Fig.
SMOLDER WAVE.SCALE GIIADIENT$ FIG.
However, all of the problems noted in Table 1 are amenable to the continuum assumption.
In some cases, such as that in Fig.
Sinoie-Particle F, qumigns Consider first a situation in which gradients in species concentration and temperature exist within the individual fuel panicles (Fig.
In the equations that follow, it is assumed that the pore volume within a fuel particle is qualitatively similar to the free volume in the fuel bed as a whole (Fig.
It may or may not resemble that in Fig.
See the Nomenclature table for an explanation of the symbols used.
Inspection of Fig.
bottom of Fig.
It was noted in connection with Fig.
In a situation such as that shown in Fig.
The non- dimensionalization via the reference quantities in Table 2 is designed to render all important terms of order unity.
The expression in Table 2 for the reference bulk gas flow velocity v~R comes from the assumption that flow drag and buoyancy are balanced in the bed of fuel particles.
The actual ranges of numbers used for these reference values (as listed in Table 2) cover the spectrum seen experimentally in a wide variety of configurations (Table 1 plus some other cases as weli~ The large set of dimensionless parameters in Table 2 is not necessarily the minimum number nor the optimum set for a specific problem.
This set suffices TABLE 2.
if the particle phase has species and temperature gradients on the scale of a single particle, Eqs (2)-(9) apply instead of Eqs (10)--(16) and the former equations, when non-dimensionalized via the reference quantities in Table 2, become as follows.
whether in the bulk gas phase or on the particle surface, were assumed to have power law species dependencies and an Arrhenius temperature depend- ence; this form is mirrored in the definition of RR~ (see ni el in Table 2).
25, $ is not really a gas-phase variable) the n's are small, typically 10-3 or less (see ~'1, ~3,/'~8j, 7~19, ~23j, '~27' 7g32' ~35' ~39j and rt45 in Table 2).
Table 2 shows that the a's multiplying the acceleration terms (a4, ~ in Eq.
Note that the a's multiplying the interphase transport terms (ff2K, ffl 2- a22j- '/[29" a3OK) have a very large potential range of values as shown in Table 2.
Table 2 shows, however, that the range of expected values for a42 is biased strongly toward values much less than unity.
It also pertains here only to cases in which n~ is at the low end of its range in Table 2, since the assumption is made that transient thermal processes in the particle are negligible.
Inspection of Table 2 shows Modeling of smoldering combustion propagation 299 that a36 and 7h7t in Eq.
While Table 2 shows that 7r4sx may be small or large, it is probable that the algebraic sum of diffusive enthalpy fluxes represented here will be small unless one species has an exceptional specific enthalpy.
Most real world smolder propa- gation problems involve fuel beds immersed in air with oxygen penetrating the bed by diffusion and flow, as in Fig.
Figure 4 shows a qualitative comparison of wave- scale oxygen and temperature profiles for these two cases.
FIG.
At the front of the wave (right side in Fig.
A substantially simplified solution for forward propagation of an exothermic reaction in the absence of pyrolysis as a heat sink85 shows that the peak temperature tends to increase indefinitely; this is particularly rapid when the heat generation zone moves forward at the same rate as the heat flow (convection dominated case~ In the more general case of Fig.
(18) that the differing wave structures of Fig.
The smolder configuration in Fig.
This case exhibits a more complex wave structur~ It is also more difficult to produce experimentally; the transient growth in the total wave thickness demands an increasingly large fuel-bed diameter to permit a one-dimensional wave front.l a Both of these experimental simulations are most readily done with forced air flow but the case of buoyant flow plus diffusive oxygen supply is also of interest as a prelude to the next stage in the modeling sequence (3) Two-dimensional smolder propagation with no particle-scale gradients (cases such as that in Fig.l)~ Such cases with a buoyant/diffusive oxygen supply are a mix of for- ward and reverse smolder behavior; they are found in many real-world situations.
Cohen and Luft19 measured smolder propagation velocities through a variety of materials in a horizontal layer configuration like Fig.
Ohlemillerz4 has used this idea to suggest that the general shape of the reaction zone in Fig.
This is a small-scale, radially symmetric analog of the smolder situation shown in Fig.
Quite recently, Leisch94 modeled the two- dimensional problem shown in Fig.
The few computed values of smolder velocity are in reason- ably good agreement with experiment but this is not Modeling of smoldering a particularly meaningful test since the average oxygen level is, in effect, a floating parameter; the value used, 0.16 atm., is seen to be quite high when reference is made to Fig.
For example, because of this air bypass route, this forward smolder problem does not have the oxygen profile structure shown in Fig.
4 for a 1-D reaction wave, and its qualitative behavior is not constrained in the same ways as were discussed in conjunction with that figure.
An in- crease in the convective heat transfer coefficient between bulk gas and bulk sol~id caused a nearly proportional increase in smolder wave speed; this should apply only to the pyrolysis portion of a wave such as that in Fig.
The temperature profile is qualitatively the same as that in Fig.
The resulting temperature and oxygen profiles resemble those in Fig.
In view of Modeling of smoldering combustion propagation 307 Fig.
A fully developed model of the problem in Fig.
