Synergistic interaction for catalytic co-pyrolysis of municipal paper and polyethylene terephthalate wastes coupling with deep learning methodology Municipal papers and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) wastes are primary constituents of municipal solid waste (MSW) which necessitates effective disposal. Co-pyrolysis is an efficient transformation technology for the production of valuable gas and liquid fuels. Therefore, co-pyrolysis characteristics, kinetics, gas and liquid products of cellulose and PET mixtures were investigated in a two-stage reactor by multiple characterizations coupling with deep learning approach. The results indicated that there exhibited positive interaction for cellulose and PET co-pyrolysis in terms of mass difference ( δ m ) and mass loss rate difference ( δ r ) between experimental and calculated values. The thermal decomposition process and synergistic effects ( δ m and δ r ) were accurately predicted by deep learning approaches (R 2 =0.9823–0.9993) using temperature, catalyst, mixing ratio and heating rate variables. Feature importance revealed that the temperature, catalyst, heating rate and mixing ratio were in the descending order to affect the remaining mass from TG curves. And the temperature played a predominant role in synergistic effects. The Flynn-Wall-Ozawa (FWO) method was more suitable for fitting the pyrolysis process to obtain activation energy ( E a ) with higher R 2 (0.94714–0.99640) compared with Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose (KAS) method. When the mixing ratio of cellulose and PET was 1:1, the E a was significantly reduced to 80.73 KJ/mol, and further reduced to 73.04 KJ/mol by introducing the catalyst, as compared to E a of individual cellulose (178.95 KJ/mol) and PET (198.34 KJ/mol). Co-pyrolysis of cellulose and PET led to a reduction of carbohydrates, furans, alcohols, ketones, and phenols, while the content of acids was remarkably increased which was consistent with the observation in FTIR that the absorption peak of C＝O became sharp and strong. The introduction of ZSM-11 resulted in an increase in aromatics and a decrease in acids content owing to aromatization and deoxygenation. This work is expected to offer beneficial guidance for the efficient disposal of MSW and the application of deep learning methods.