Evaluation of solid bitumen created from marine oil shale bituminite under hydrous and anhydrous pyrolysis conditions To test the influence of environmental conditions on aromaticity of solid bitumen generated during petroleum generation, four organic-rich (26–36 wt% total organic carbon) oil shale samples collected from the Neoproterozoic–Lower Cambrian restricted marine Salt Range Formation in the upper Indus Basin, Pakistan, were pyrolyzed under hydrous and anhydrous conditions. Experiments used closed system batch reactors at subcritical water temperatures between 300 and 370°C for 72 h. Thermal conversion of bituminite in the Salt Range oil shales created a newly formed solid bitumen, similar to previous observations from experiments on the Eocene lacustrine Green River Formation Mahogany zone oil shale. Newly formed solid bitumen in the Salt Range Formation oil shales generally has higher reflectance (Ro) in hydrous residues compared to anhydrous experiments subjected to the same time-temperature conditions, also similar to prior observations. This finding supports the hypothesis that radical disproportionation is favored in the presence of hydrogen contributed by water, promoting aromatization in the solid bitumen residue with concomitant increased expulsion of saturated hydrocarbons. Indigenous solid bitumen (and vitrinite in a comparison sample) also shows higher reflectance values in hydrous versus anhydrous residues, indicating that additional aromatization in the presence of exogenous hydrogen occurs both in newly formed organic matter and in organic matter that is present throughout the experiment. Despite similarities in their bulk rock geochemical screening parameters, Ro evolution shows different trajectories amongst the four Salt Range oil shales, suggesting as-yet undetermined differences in kinetic properties which are probably related to differences in a priori chemical composition. These results have implications for the use of solid bitumen reflectance (BRo) as a thermal proxy, suggesting BRo values and appearance could vary as a function of the concentration of water. Variation in water concentration may be present at the reservoir or formation scale, but may also be present at a much finer scale in tight oil shales where permeability is several orders of magnitude lower than conventional reservoirs. Therefore, local variations in the presence of water potentially could explain substantial variation in BRo values and appearance in closely spaced source rock samples and even within an individual microscope field.