Overview and prospects of low-emissions hydrogen ( H 2 ) energy systems: Roadmap for a sustainable H 2 economy Hydrogen ( H 2 ) has a big role to play in energy transition to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. For H 2 to compete with other fuels in the energy market, more research is required to mitigate key issues like greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, safety, and end-use costs. For these reasons, a software-supported technical overview of H 2 production, storage, transportation, and utilisation is introduced. Drawbacks and mitigation approaches for H 2 technologies were highlighted. The recommended areas include solar thermal or renewable-powered plasma systems for feedstock preheating and oxy-hydrogen combustion to meet operating temperatures and heat duties due to losses; integration of electrolysis of H 2 O into hydrocarbon reforming methods to replace air separation unit (ASU); use of renewable power sources for electrical units and the introduction of thermoelectric units to maximise the overall efficiency. Furthermore, a battolyser system for small-scale energy storage; new synthetic hydrides with lower absorption and desorption energy; controlled parameters and steam addition to the combustor/cylinder and combustors with fitted heat exchangers to reduce emissions and improve the overall efficiency are also required. This work also provided detailed information on any of these systems implementations based on location factors and established a roadmap for H 2 production and utilisation. The proposed H 2 production technologies are hybrid pyrolysis-electrolysis and integrated AD-MEC and DR systems using renewable, bioelectrochemical and low-carbon energy systems. Production and utilisation of synthetic natural gas (NG) using renewable-powered electrolysis of H 2 O , oxy-hydrogen and direct air capture (DAC) is another proposed H 2 energy system for a sustainable H 2 economy. By providing these factors and information, researchers can work towards pilot development and further efficiency enhancement.