Effect of alkali-treated HZSM-5 zeolite on the production of aromatic hydrocarbons from microwave assisted catalytic fast pyrolysis (MACFP) of rice husk We performed microwave-assisted catalytic fast pyrolysis (MACFP) of rice husk (RH) over an alkali-treated HZSM-5 zeolite, for production of hydrocarbons. The treatment consisted in the modification of the HZSM-5 by the organic base tetrapropylammonium hydroxide (TPAOH) solution at several concentrations. We characterized the resulting catalysts by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), N2 adsorption-desorption, and temperature-programmed sorption of ammonia (NH3-TPD). The results suggest that the TPAOH treatment generated mesoporous structures in the HZSM-5, while preserving its microporous structure and crystallinity. We obtained the highest yield (45.9%) of hydrocarbons from MACFP of rice husk (RH) at 550 °C. As the TPAOH concentration increases, the relative content of BTEX hydrocarbons (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, and xylene) reaches a maximum value of 22.9% at 2.0 mol/L. A comparison of results obtained over the organic base TPAOH (HZSM-5 modified by 2.0 mol/L TPAOH solution) with those obtained over an inorganic base (HZSM-5 modified by 2.0 mol/L NaOH solution) shows a 4.3% increase in the relative content of monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons for the TPAOH. In addition, the TPAOH-treated catalyst shows excellent selectivity of BTEX (58.5%), which is higher than the selectivity obtained with the parent HZSM-5 (51.2%) and NaOH-treated HZSM-5 (53.9%). The TPAOH-modified HZSM-5 catalyst effectively reduced coke formation by 4.6% compared to MACFP over the parent HZSM-5, most likely because TPAOH decreases the concentration of strong acidic sites on the outer surface of the catalyst, creating a mesoporous structure while retaining the weak acidic sites on the HZSM-5 inner surface. The new catalyst generated in this work contains a moderate amount of mesopores structures, which allows for effective upgrading of pyrolysis vapors while simultaneously reducing coke formation, thereby addressing a significant problem in the development of the catalytic fast pyrolysis process.