Thermodynamic and economic analysis of a novel thermoelectric-hydrogen co-generation system combining compressed air energy storage and chemical energy With the adjustment of energy structure, the proportion of renewable energy is gradually increasing, and how to solve the problem of renewable energy consumption is becoming more and more prominent. Therefore, a novel thermoelectric-hydrogen co-generation system combining compressed air energy storage (CAES) and chemical energy (CE) is proposed. For energy storage, the system uses adiabatic compression with liquid piston to reduce the generation of compression heat, while using the generated compression heat to preheat the methanol. For energy release, the methanol is fed into the methanol steam reforming reactor (MSR) and the methanol decomposition reactor (MDR) in certain proportions for the hydrogen production reaction; the unreacted methanol and the carbon monoxide produced by the MDR are used as make-up heat for the reactors and the high-pressure air before the turbine, while the exhaust waste heat supplies heat to the customer. The thermodynamic, economic and environmental performances of the system were investigated separately by developing a mathematical model describing the system. The results show that under the design conditions, the system has an energy storage density of 12.00 kWh/m3, an energy efficiency of 88.47 %, an exergy efficiency of 77.04 %, a lifetime net present value of 59.20 M$, a payback period of 4 years, and a CO2 emission per unit of energy output of 227.85 kg/MWh. Increasing the thermostatic heat source temperature and increasing the reactor diameter and length increased the methanol conversion rate. Increasing heat exchange effectiveness of the heat exchanger and heat source temperature can all improve system thermodynamic and economic performance. The energy storage density, energy efficiency, net present value and profitability of the system varied parabolically with the reactor tube diameter. The system energy storage density had a maximum value of 12.03 kWh/m3 at a reactor diameter of 0.040 m.