Catalyst design for microwave-enhanced hydrogen production: Comparative performance across diverse feedstocks Microwave-driven dehydrogenation is gaining significant attention for its unique ability to achieve high conversion rates, exceptional selectivity in C-H bond cleavage, and rapid reaction kinetics. Here, we present the development and application of microwave-initiated heterogeneous processes for hydrogen production using diverse feedstocks such as biomass, methane (CH4) and carbon dioxide (CO2), waste plastics, and aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons. By purpose-designing microwave-active catalysts, we have established efficient pathways to convert renewable feedstocks and waste materials into hydrogen fuel. Ni-based catalysts, promoted with transition metals like Fe, Co, and Mg, were employed for low-temperature biomass gasification, achieving remarkable performance with rapid completion and high selectivity. Specifically, NiFeAlOx catalysts delivered superior gas yield (87.7 %) and syngas selectivity (93.7 %), with an optimized H2/CO ratio near 2.0 that is suitable for Fischer-Tropsch process. Two greenhouse gases, CH4 and CO2, were converted into syngas (CO + H2) via methane dry reforming (MDR), using NiMn/ZrO2 catalysts. The process achieved outstanding CH4 and CO2 conversions of over 88 % and 94 %, respectively, sustained for more than 10 h. High purity hydrogen and high-quality carbon nanotubes (CNTs) were produced by dehydrogenation of waste plastics using iron-based catalysts. Further study on the dehydrogenation of aliphatic and aromatic compounds achieved a 90 % hydrogen selectivity and up to 94 % CO2 emission reduction. These findings demonstrate the potential of microwave-driven catalytic processes as efficient, sustainable approaches to carbon-neutral technologies. By optimizing conversion efficiency, promoting waste valorization, and advancing the circular economy, this work underscores the transformative impact of microwave-driven methods on hydrogen production and sustainable energy solutions.