Modeling and simulation of microwave assisted catalytic pyrolysis system of waste plastics polymer for fuel production Pyrolysis is a promising method of chemically recycling plastic waste, as it allows for the recovery of both energy and materials. In this work, a comprehensive mathematical model has been developed to predict the pyrolysis of plastic wastes over ZSM-5 catalyst in microwave-assisted pyrolysis (MAP) system for fuel production. To conduct a transient numerical analysis of the underlying processes, a lumped kinetic model that takes into account three lumped pyrolysis products (olefins, paraffins, and aromatics) is coupled with the equations that govern the microwave field, heat transfer, mass transfer, and fluid flow (Darcy's law). The distributions of electric field, temperature, and pyrolysis products within MAP are presented. The study investigated the effects of several factors on the rate of production and consumption in the pyrolysis reactions of a waste plastic mixture when using MAP. These factors include the microwave power input, the inlet velocity of the fluidizing gas, as well as the mass and particle size of the catalyst used. Increasing the input power leads to a higher intensity of the electric field, which causes a greater increase in temperature within the same time frame. The mass and particle size of the catalyst used also have a significant impact on the yield of olefins, paraffins, and aromatics. Reducing the particle size of the catalyst generally increases the reaction rate, but particle sizes smaller than 50 μm are not ideal for fluidization due to increased intermolecular forces. Increasing the inlet velocity of the fluidizing gas may result in an incomplete consumption of intermediates and a low yield of products. All in all, The MAP system is a highly efficient and effective design for using plastic waste as a source of energy, due to its superior energy efficiency and lower processing temperature compared to traditional fluidized-bed reactors.