Oxidation Mechanism and Surface Characterization of Pyrolytic Graphite in Simulated Air for Pyrochemical Reprocessing Application Accidental air ingress into the containment chamber of pyrochemical reprocessing of spent nuclear fuels can cause severe oxidation of graphite components. Pyrolytic graphite (PyG) coating on conventional high-density graphite (HDG) is proposed for protection against oxidation, molten salt, and molten metal corrosion. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the thermal stability and kinetic parameters and propose a suitable oxidation mechanism of PyG under simulated air using thermogravimetry analysis (TGA). In dynamic oxidation, a linear increase in the oxidation onset, peak, and burnout temperature is observed for PyG synthesized at increasing pyrolysis temperature from 1200 to 2400°C except for 1400°C. The isothermal oxidation study showed a similar trend i.e., a decrease in the linear oxidation rate constant value for any given isotherm with increasing pyrolysis. The Arrhenius plot showed two-stage oxidation regimes operating between 600 to 1000°C. In regime-I, between 600 to ∼800°C controlled by surface chemical reaction kinetics, the activation energy is measured between 100-200 kJ.mol−1. The graphite-oxygen reaction initiates and propagates preferentially along the prismatic planes at the sample edges, where the dangling bonds of stacked graphite layer structures are exposed. In regime-II operating above ∼800°C, the surface reaction rate is infinitely faster, and the diffusional mass transport becomes a rate-limiting factor. In this regime, the graphite-oxygen initiates by pore formation on defective reactive sites on the bulk surface and propagates by pore-widening and pore-coalescence mechanism. The observed differences in the oxidation rates for different pyrolysis PyG attributed to its intrinsic material properties are investigated. This work provides new insights into the oxidation mechanism of the PyG during accidental air ingress in a pyrochemical reprocessing plant.